This is an insurance rate cut. It
doesn't really foreshadow what's going
to happen going forward.
>> This is all about risk management.
>> This is a Fed that locked arms. One
descent was surprising.
>> It's really clear that Powell coralled
the cats.
>> We're all kind of hot and bothered by
this move, but the truth of the matter
is we're not in neutral territory yet.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday with low conviction,
a challenging situation, two-sided risk.
There's no risk-free path. It's not
incredibly obvious what to do. A
riskmanagement cut in a meeting
bymeating situation.
>> Fed chair J. Pal attempted to unite a
divided Federal Reserve as rate car
projections fall well short of very high
expectations. Newly minted Governor
Steven Myron might be offering a preview
of things to come.
>> All right, let's just go over what he
did. Yesterday he did descent saying
that he opted for a 50 basis point rate
cut rather than a 25 basis point rate
cut. He indicated with his dot and yes
we all know that it's his dot uh that he
sees going forward a 125 basis a point
reduction in Fed funds rates this year
don't
>> right exactly absolutely no that could
not what was interesting to me was
actually not what Steven did it was what
Mickey Bowman and Chris Waller did not
do they didn't join that descent and
that I think was more telling to markets
after a moment of digestion than
anything else The dot plot was a
contradictory mess. I think the
forecasts were a contradictory mess and
that compromises the chairman's ability
to articulate a clear message. But that
just speaks to how divided this
committee is, which speaks to the
overall theme anyway coming into this.
Would we get risk management rate cuts
or would it be the beginning of a big
easing cycle? When you have a committee
as divided as this one, it's got to be
the former and not the latter.
>> Yeah. Then what does the market do with
a complete lack of forward guidance and
a complete lack of understanding of what
the reaction function is going to be
because of this divide on the FOMC? And
the answer is buy stocks. I mean that's
sort of what people do and buy stocks
that are rate sensitive because there is
this bet that ultimately this is clearly
a committee that is prioritizing growth
over inflation. It has been that case
for a number of years now. It seems like
there is absolutely no reason why it
should change.
>> You know I joke about it being the Fed
shares do. It might be the Fed shares
dollar in 12 months time.
>> Oh, that's true.
>> Okay. Very good. Very good.
>> Something you have to think about.
>> You know what was interesting? If you
look at some of the betting markets, the
chance of Steven Myron being the next
Fed chair went from 11% to 20%. After
this meeting. So clearly there are some
people who see that probably the
president over in the UK liked what he
saw.
>> We'll spend some time talking about
this, no doubt, through the next 3
hours. Equity futures. Brammo talked
about it. Buy stocks. Buying stocks up
by 0.8. 8% on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, Julian Emanuel of Ever with
stocks rising after the Fed's first cut
of the year. We'll catch up with Everett
Eisenstat, the former NEC deputy
director as President Donald Trump
prepares for a meeting with Karma and
Francis Donald of RBC with Pal pushing
back against an aggressive cutting
cycle. We begin this hour with stocks
rising after the Fed cut rates for the
first time this year. Julian Emanuel of
Evercore ISI writing, "The Fed's
projections support the president. The
stocks move higher on a 12-month forward
basis. When the Fed begins the cutting
cycle, we reiterate our year-end 2026
S&P target of 7750."
Julian joins us now for more. Julian,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You've been writing about it. Is the Fed
cutting because they can or because they
have to? Why is that an important
distinction?
>> Because if they're cutting because they
have to, i.e. fighting off the potential
of a recession, the forward returns look
marketkedly different uh you know much
weaker on average um because there is an
adverse economic set of circumstances
that you're having to guard against. But
look, when you think about not
necessarily the knee-jerk yesterday
afternoon, but certainly what we're
seeing this morning, there's two
messages is that the market does believe
as the Fed talked about yesterday that
we are approaching the trough of
economic growth and are going to
reacelerate however gently in 2026 and
the peak of inflation. So if you think
about the last couple of years, it
hasn't been the absolute level of either
growth or inflation. It's been the
direction of travel and that's where you
know the virtuous cycle lies.
>> From the conversations you've been
having with clients at the moment, do
you sense that something has flipped?
Are they more concerned about upside
risk than they are downside risk?
>> I it this week the dynamic changed. Look
at we were managing money back in the
late 1990s. uh and and frankly as the
technology revolution the internet
revolution was evolving active managers
couldn't keep up with the indexes
because they couldn't own enough
technology uh the conversation now is
you know what do I own what do I buy how
do I stay invested if we are in fact
beginning a runaway phase um you know
our answer is you need to stay with the
AI theme it is the theme that has
brought us to this point over the last
couple years. History tells you that
what has been working, what had been the
market leaders despite the fact that
there's a lot of catchup being played
tends to work in the later stages as
well. Um, but frankly, if you've got
that kind of outperformance, you might
want to buy a little bit of protection
because the parabolic advance does have
pullbacks. Uh we also think that uh low
valuation stocks, lower multiple stocks
with high earnings revisions also tend
to work.
>> Well, this is the reason why I think a
lot of people are going into the Russell
2000. People looking at small caps that
are seeing earnings growth and seeing
that they'll benefit more
disproportionately potentially from the
rate cuts and it's the reason why
yesterday and I understand it was one
day you did see that rotation out of the
big tech, the high-f flyers into some of
the more rate sensitive stocks. Do you
think that that's a persistent theme or
do you think that ultimately it really
is going to be a techdriven cycle period
the end?
>> Well, if you think about the late 1990s
and and we've said this a number of
times and frankly where we started
really coalescing around the the
parallels between the the late 1990s and
today was not in the relentless advance
but that bare market interruption we had
from February to April very much like
1998. The point there is at the later
stages all the boats rose. Okay. But
technology continued to lead and and
what I would say here is if you look at
it what's different now versus then is
in fact the advanced decline line
continues to rise as the index rises
whereas in the late 1990s it was only
those later stages where everything else
began to participate. So there is a
health here. Um, ultimately we think,
particularly with regard to small caps,
that the best thing that happened
yesterday is that the 10-year yield
remains anchored near 4%.
>> That's where I wanted to go. I feel like
nervous Nelly. I feel like I'm always
kind of repeating myself. What about
inflation? And what about the worry
about bond vigilantes coming back? And
everyone kind of shuts me down and says,
"Haha, that's cute. It's not actually
going to happen. It hasn't happened."
And frankly, we've seen the peak in
inflation. Isn't that a little bit of a
creeping concern at some point? If
you're running the economy hot, we're
talking about a reaceleration. Can we be
sure that inflation truly has peaked?
>> It it's definitely a concern. And and if
you look at the last number of months
again, there's been this angst around
the fact that inflation has looked like
it was getting sticky. But you know, the
the fact is he didn't use the word
transitory, but he did use the word
one-time price adjustment yesterday. And
the presumption is that tariffs are a
one-time price adjustment and you're
going to have inflation start to move
lower again.
>> You're not impressed, Bremo. The
two-year view of inflation getting back
to target, the rolling two-year view at
the Federal Reserve.
>> Okay, first of all, he said a million
things. Half of it was word salad. He
was asked questions that were tangible
questions about the two years and he was
like, well, targets inflation next, you
know, I mean, it was not necessarily
this clear concept of exactly where they
were heading. First of all, second of
all, it's not just tariffs. It's also
this idea that there are production uh
lines that are being moved back to the
US. What about all those stories?
They're all of these inflationary
stories that people just forget at times
when it's convenient. Bring back when
it's time to go with the trend. And I'm
a little bit frustrated by that.
>> Their inability to get back to two
predates April 2nd.
>> Exactly.
>> It's an important point to make and I
agree with you. Well, and especially if
you have a changing demographic, if you
have an aging population and they've got
more disposable income because they're
the boomers that have houses that they
got with cheap mortgages and they have
the assets from the S&P 500.
>> You haven't slept, have you? Keep this
up. I'm loving it.
>> Are you speaking for
>> go after those boomers this morning? Why
are the houses so expensive?
>> No, I'm just saying like they could they
could invest in services and it'll bid
prices up. Okay, carry on.
>> I'm right there with you. Can we go back
to the ' 90s? Let's go back to the '90s.
Houses were cheaper then. in the late
'9s. I want to reflect on your
experience of that. Was career risk
greater if you missed the upside or
missed the downside?
>> Not even close. The penalty for missing
runaway bull markets is almost
invariably more severe than being
overinvested in the downside.
>> How conditioned is a generation of
investors by that very fact, that
experience?
Well, what the what the you know
interesting thing is you go back to
earlier this year. It's not the
generation of professional investors
that are conditioned. The public is
actually learning from all of this.
Okay, remember March and April when
professionals were de-risking. It was
the public that was buying the dip. And
frankly, that's part of the narrative
along with the 4% uh 10-year yield that
supports multiples at these levels. This
is a controversial question, but has the
Fed become less relevant and not
necessarily a political instrument, but
a market related instrument? And the
market has confidence that when push
comes to shove, this is a central bank
that will always underwrite risk over
the fear of inflation running a little
bit too hot. Well, again, and and
forgive me for doing on the 90s again,
but the difference being once again is
that if you look at the late 1990s, in
1999, the Fed raised 175 basis points in
the second half of 1999 to try and pop
what was inflating bubble. There is no
set of circumstances in our mind that is
going to cause the Fed to raise rates at
any time in 2026. certainly not before
the the midterm elections. Um and in
that respect, you know, there is further
support for equity markets.
>> There's a degree of comfort, I think,
for a lot of people, Lisa, that now
inflation is closer to three. I know
it's nowhere near two, but closer to
three. This Fed appears to be more
comfortable supporting the labor market.
And if we are to get further weakness,
this Fed will keep cutting interest
rates. That's the way Chairman Pal has
ultimately set things up. If there is
consensus around anything on the
committee right now, it's essentially
that. Yeah, is to prioritize the labor
market over the idea of getting
inflation to 2% anytime soon. When
Michael McKe asked Chair Powell about
the 2year kind of rolling goal of
getting down to 2%, Chair Powell said,
"Well, that's our models. We do a
two-year looking out and we try to
understand and that's where we think
we're going to get there. Get and it
just then he moved on."
>> He said the quiet bit out loud, didn't
he?
>> He did. Which is essentially that's what
we expect and when it doesn't happen, we
keep expecting it. And the magic
forecast.
>> Exactly. And at a certain point, people
say, "All right, well, this is this is
the reality."
>> We've got some time to think this
through this morning.
>> I'm sure everyone's pleased about that.
>> But when I woke up, I was thinking, you
know what? Everyone's throwing mud at
Governor Myron's dot. And we pointed out
yesterday for an important reason.
You've got to remember that that could
be the view of things at the very top of
the Federal Reserve a year round. That
could be a taste of things to come.
Point one. But there's a second point.
What if Governor Myron's right? What if
that is where rates end the year? And I
was thinking about it. This Federal
Reserve is hopeless at turning points.
Go back to the SCP and look at the
median dot of late 21 and they were
forecasting interest rates 12 months
later at 0.9%.
They were several hundred basis points
off where they ended the year. In fact,
if you want a more recent experience, go
to the SCP and the dot plot of June last
year, just June last year. They weren't
forecasting the 100 basis points of cuts
they ultimately delivered into year end.
So I think you sort of have to respect
like the people who are willing to think
outside the box and don't just sit here
and say this is politics and condition
yourself to ignore it just because of
that. Clearly there's some politics here
but acknowledge that this Fed is
absolutely hopeless at turning points
and think about a wider range of
outcomes over the next 12 months.
>> So I'm looking at the dots and the dots
talk to that wider range of outcomes
with the high dot around 4% and the low
dot around 250 over the longer period of
time. The turning point I think is a key
one. Are we turning into an era that is
deflationary or reinflationary? And that
I think is undetermined and I think that
that's what the Fed is struggling with.
>> We can spend some time with this.
Julian, you're going to stick with us.
I'm happy to say. Judah Emanuel of
Everor. Equities up by 0.9% on the S&P.
With an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief is Vonyi Quinn. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. China's Huawei
unveiled a plan to challenge Nvidia's
dominance in the AI chip market. The
company unveiled its new super pod
cluster designs that can link more than
15,000 of its Ascend AI chips together
to boost computing power. Huawei plans
to roll out the new models in 2027 and
2028.
Shares of Alphabet rising in the
pre-market. The Financial Times reported
China is dropping its antitrust
investigation into the dominance of
Google's Android. The announcement comes
ahead of Friday's scheduled call between
President Donald Trump and China's
Xinping.
Walt Disney's ABC network is taking
Jimmy Kimmel live off the air
indefinitely. The announcement comes
amid a backlash over the late night
host's comments about the killing of
Republican activist Charlie Kirk. On
Monday, Kimmel suggested in his
monologue that the MAGA movement was
looking to score political points of the
death of Kirk. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. More from Vonyie in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
from Pomp to Politics. The bond of
kinship and identity between America and
the United Kingdom is priceless and
eternal. It's irreplaceable and
unbreakable. Up next on the program,
we'll get to the business end of the
state visit. We'll catch up with Amarie
on the ground in the UK from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Chairman Pal, it's challenging to know
what to do. There are no risk-free paths
from here. So, what do you do the day
after a very challenging meeting? You
buy stocks up by 0.9% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by one full percentage point.
On the Russell up by 1.5 in the bond
market, yields lower across the board
and widening yesterday's move. Twos's
brammo back down to 352. This is clearly
a Federal Reserve that's going to cut
rates maybe not as much as previously
expected and actually you did see Fed
funds for uh futures increase the
potential rate at the end of 2026. That
said, the idea that this Fed is going to
cut despite the elevated inflation rate
has been locked into the market psyche
and this is a Fed that is clearly
underwriting risk assets.
>> Should we lighten the mood and move away
from the Federal Reserve for a moment?
>> Was that dark?
>> Just for a beat.
>> Okay, sure.
>> Something more exciting. Some theater
under Savanas this morning. From pump to
politics.
>> We're joined by history and fate, by
love and language. We're like two notes
in one court. Each beautiful on its own,
but really meant to be played together.
The bond of kinship and identity between
America and the United Kingdom is
priceless and eternal. It's
irreplaceable and unbreakable. Is there
anything more British than that scene
right there?
>> I mean, that's what I said to you. I was
looking at this and I was thinking to
myself, you could have taken this out of
a Hollywood movie and known exactly
where it was, the exact mood, the mood
music, and then you pointed out for
0.001%
of the British population, but that is
sort of how we think about
>> the I've said this a few times, whatever
your politics, I can't think of a single
person that enjoys being the president
much more than the president of the
United States, Donald Trump. Is there
anyone that enjoys this more than him?
This is a second visit at a time when
this is uh you know already a fraught uh
visit when it comes to some of the
tariff rates and the politics around it.
And yet this I think is what he aspires
for the new ballroom to look like in the
White House.
>> I I don't think you're far wrong. Let's
put it that way. If you're just joining
us, welcome to the program. Here's the
latest this morning. President Donald
Trump praising the long-standing
relationship with the United Kingdom.
The president joined by a long list of
guests also expected to attend a
business reception later on this
morning. on the ground. Following things
is Bloomberg's Amarie. AMH, talk us
through what happened in the last 24
hours. And let's get to the business end
too. What we can expect throughout this
morning.
>> Well, the president himself has called
Windsor Castle the ultimate setting. And
you can see the pictures yesterday
absolutely picturesque. Hollywood, to
Lisa's point, maybe meets Hogwarts.
Hogwarts in terms of what we actually
saw take place at this state banquet.
The president was leaning into this
special relationship, talking about how
it's two notes of one chord, beautiful
separately, but they should be played
together. And we should note the royal
family really went above and beyond to
make this incredibly personal for the
president. Even they included a 1912
Kgnac to represent the birth year of his
Scottishborn mother. But that special
relationship is going to get a little
bit more tense today. Kier Starmer, the
prime minister, will be hosting
President Trump at checkers. They are
there right now together. They're going
to have this business reception which is
going to be welcomed by both of these
men, especially given the fact that a
lot of those faces we saw last night
like Mark Beni off, Sam Olman, Tim Cook,
are going to be at that reception.
Jensen Wang, who this week said he
declared the UK will be an AI
superpower. That's going to be the easy
part. Then when it comes to the press
conference, this is where the special
relationship can get tense. There could
be questions on trade which those
discussions uh we have assumed and we
are told really are being shelved right
now. The UK wanted to push for lower
tariff barriers on steel. We know that
geopolitics is going to be front and
center because the times is reporting
that once President Trump leaves this
weekend Kier Starmer will formally
recognize Palestine as a state. And then
an awkward moment potentially about
Jeffrey Epstein. headlines that dominate
dominate with the president back home in
Washington are also a problem right now
for the prime minister given the fact
that he just ousted his British
ambassador to the US because of close
ties to that man. So, it's going to be
during the press conference where all
the happiness and the close bond, the
kinship of last night could be
evaporated.
>> And Marie, appreciate the update. We'll
touch base with you in the next 60
minutes or so. Still with us around the
table, the chief equity strategist at
Everore, we've got Julian Emanuel with
us. Julian, I want to talk about the
trade story that Amory alluded to. This
market has moved on. It feels like years
ago, even though it was only 5 6 months
ago that April 2nd happened. This
Federal Reserve is prepared to look
through the consequences of the trade
war too. Are you prepared just to move
on, to forget about it?
>> Look, factually,
what we're seeing is what we've seen
over the course of the last decade plus
is that both corporate America and
consumers are adaptable. We we're
really, you know, we're managing through
the tariffs. There's, you know, been
some pass through. Again, that's the the
whole idea of of the one-time adjustment
higher, but there's also been, you know,
the flow through uh in terms of margins
which remain elevated and then of course
suppliers uh bearing part of the cost.
uh you know we do think it's part of the
message of inflation and growth being
where they are right now but when you
look a year from now that effect is
likely dissipating.
>> How much are we overlooking the retail
sales and clearly that weighed on the
Fed's decision and the reason perhaps
that Mickey Bowman and Chris Waller
didn't descent with 50 basis points. I
keep thinking about what Muhammad Arian
said about how after the pandemic, a lot
of retailers removed those stickers that
said 199 suggested retail price. Those
no longer exist on any of the packages
because they are uh they see prices as
more funible and consumers as more
adaptable to higher prices. How much
does that change the way that tariffs
will be passed through in the economy
versus say 2018 when they weren't as
widespread and when people were more
conditioned to almost zero inflation?
>> Well, again, it it all comes back to
what it always comes back to given the
structure of the US economy, the the
importance and the health of the
consumer, right? And and that's why
again when you think about the message
yesterday, there is some uncertainty
around what the labor market dynamics
actually are. What is the correct number
for monthly job ads now? Uh given the
change in immigration policy, it might
have been 120,000. Last year it may only
be 60,000 now. But the point being again
is is that and it's been said a million
times, don't underestimate the
consumer's propensity to spend in this
country. And that's what we're seeing.
>> You seem pretty comfortable on a scale
from say hiding in a bunker to raging
bull. Where do you stand?
>> Look, we're telling people that you
should actually think about hedging here
against a core structural long AI
portfolio because frankly the sort of 10
to 15% pullbacks that were part of the
late 1990s, you're going to get one in
in here at some point. And there is a
huge amount of good news that's been
priced in. And you are really
approaching all-time high multiples.
Multiples alone don't kill the market.
Uh um you know, it's really more
recession and rates that do. Um but
bigger picture, we do expect a period of
what I would term FOMO. um accompanied
by a much more robust capital market
cycle that if you think about it,
there's been pent up demand for
transactions for over a year now.
>> How bullish is Julian? This was the
title of the note that I got overnight
from Julian Emanuel. Nowhere to go but
up. That was the subject title of the
research piece released overnight.
Nowhere to go but up.
>> Yeah, this sounds like raging bull, but
Julian being a disciplined analyst is
saying you've got a hedge. And I guess
I'm thinking to myself, hedge but don't
sell. And that I think is the key. Hedge
and find ways to maybe offset any type
of downside, but don't get rid of those
stocks because they're going to keep on
going up. And this seems to be what
everyone thinks. You know, when there's
confusion, just buy stocks.
>> He also knows how to get us to open an
email, too, doesn't he? You know, it
works. It's effective.
>> Fair.
>> Julian, it's good to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thanks for spending some time with us.
We appreciate it. Julian Emanuel there
of Evercore. Equities at the moment
higher by 0.8% on the S&P 500. Bouncing
back big time so far this morning. Rally
in the bond market as well. So big rally
in stocks and bonds to start Thursday
morning. Coming up next on the program,
we'll catch up with the former NEC
deputy director Everra Eisenstat on
continued trade talks happening between
the UK and the United States across the
pond between the president of the United
States Donald Trump and the Prime
Minister K Star. Plus, we'll get you
some morning movers. We'll touch base
with you. Google jumping on news coming
out of China. The latest on that in just
a moment. That stock is higher by 1.4%.
[Music]
A very mild two-day losing streak on the
S&P 500. We're taking that back and some
so far this morning. K by 0.8% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ up 1% on the Russell
up by 1.5. And that has been the story
outperformance of small caps ever since
early August when we first got that very
weak July payrolls report and we started
to bake in some serious Fed rate cuts
even with the Federal Reserve failing to
meet very lofty market expectations.
This rally resumed in the bond market
2-year big range yesterday at the front
end of the curve nine basis point
trading range. The 2-year down again
this morning by three basis points again
taking back the move of yesterday 35237.
This is where we're anchored at the
moment. Grammo at the front end of the
curve. It's really settled around this
kind of number 350.
>> Yeah, people seem to be coalesing around
the idea of five to six rate cuts by the
end of next year. Maybe taking off one
of those after uh not seeing a descent
from other members other than Steven.
That said, I think there's a real
question of how long this can really
help the Russells 2000, how long this
can keep propping up stocks until we get
an answer to some of the very big
economic questions the Fed certainly
cannot resolve,
>> which makes it really difficult to
internalize the message, if there was a
message, coming from the Federal Reserve
yesterday. Key takeaway is frontend
yields are 40 basis points lower than
they were at the end of July and small
caps are a whole lot higher. Three hours
away from the opening power, let's get
you some morning movers. Here's Yahi
with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with Alphabet. shares
are popping 1.3%
on an FT report that Beijing is
scrapping its antirust probe into
Android and the timing does not feel
like an accident with President Trump
and President Xiinping set to speak
tomorrow on the phone. So, this is being
viewed as Beijing extending an olive
branch. Yet, Beijing's recent crackdown
in Nvidia, which have ramped up in
recent days, is calling into question
how meaningful that olive branch really
is. Meanwhile, we have some deal news in
the pharma space, and it has to do with
the red-hot obesity market. 89 Bio is
soaring 83%
after RO agreed to buy the US biotech in
a deal worth as much as $3.5 billion as
Ro seeks to catch up in this booming
space. And this company 89 Bio has a
treatment tied to that. So RO is paying
up and paying up big with an 80% premium
to yesterday's closing price which is
right in line with where we're trading
at today. John, meanwhile, we are
learning more about the fallout from the
Cracker Barrel controversy where it
unveiled a logo change and quickly had
to reverse after some backlash. Shares
are falling nearly 10% here after the
restaurant chain posted a disappointing
sales outlook. It said that since the
uproar uproar back in August, the foot
traffic foot traffic has dropped about
8% and it will continue to be down for
the rest of the year. Just showing you
how swift and aggressive the backlash
can be when you hit one of these
cultural and political nerves. John
>> Yhara, appreciate it. Thank you. More
from Yihara in the next 60 minutes or
so. On a radar this morning, President
Donald Trump and King Charles stand
downing at Windsor Castle with some of
the biggest names in tech. Apple's Tim
Cook, Nvidia's Jensen Wank, and OpenAI
Sam Alman among those at a state dinner
last night. Elsewhere, Alphabet rising
in the pre-market. The Financial Times
reporting China is dropping its
antitrust investigation into Google's
Android. The decision coming ahead of
Friday's call between President Trump
and China Xi Jinping. And finally, China
Huawei is turning up the competition on
Nvidia. The company unveod AI chip
expected to link thousands of other
chips together to boost computing power.
Yeah, this actually makes me think a lot
of what we discussed with Vivic Arya of
Bank of America yesterday where he was
saying that certainly China wants to
compete and certainly they are very good
when it comes to a lot of the hardware.
The issue for them is the software and
can they understand the development? Can
they expedite that and the ecosystem
around some of this hardware to really
match the United States? It goes to this
question of how easily is it how easy is
it for China to truly surpass the United
States in AI capabilities without the
use of the likes of Nvidia and other US
champions.
>> Respective governments are trying to
choose winners and pick national
champions. And it's very clear that
Nvidia in China is going to be in a more
difficult spot in years to come based on
the very fact that the Chinese Communist
Party wants Huawei to succeed more than
it does Nvidia. And you can see that
based on the communication we've had,
the reports we've seen from the team
over in Asia repeatedly that the Chinese
government is pushing these companies to
pursue Huawei's technology and not
Nvidia's.
>> I just wonder long term when we look
back, and I apologize for being
philosophical, maybe I didn't get that
much sleep last night, will this be
viewed as a good thing? the idea of
trying to pick state champions to be the
leaders in the tech universe. Does that
lead to good business decisions and good
technological decisions? Or is it
short-sighted the idea that Huawei could
make these super chips and the idea of
bundling together for superpower without
the development of software that can
really adapt it in some sort of uh
concrete way and disseminate it? If
that's the case, can they really catch
up or are they throwing good money after
bad? And equally in the United States,
if you end up saying to the likes of
some of the big tech companies, you have
to make this that and the other
investment, is that going to be positive
for them down the road? That I think is
what a lot of investors have to get
their heads around.
>> We're both capitalists. We don't like
Central Planet. Then we should say that
upfront.
>> I think everyone could tell.
>> But this is the reality of national
security issues. The president talks
about his relationship with Xi Jinping
and it's obviously for diplomatic
purposes. These two countries are not
friends and they both face the same
risk. China is aware that any given time
the president can turn off the supply of
American technology to China and I think
also the Americans government is well
aware that the same thing can happen to
them particularly if Taiwan is
compromised and that we need to build
out domestic foundry capacity in
America. That's the direction of travel.
The question I have at the moment is
whether if you're a multinational
company, say Nvidia, can you take
advantage of both markets? At the
moment, maybe, but for how much longer?
They're the questions I'm thinking about
for the future.
>> I think it's a question a lot of people
are thinking about. And I think that
Jensen Wang is trying to play the
ultimate diplomat, but at a certain
point, like so many others, you may be
forced to choose.
>> Got to pick a side, maybe potentially.
The stock is up this morning by 2.4%.
Let's turn to trade. President Donald
Trump meeting with UK Prime Minister
Kstalma before concluding his second
state visit today. Everett Eisenstad,
the partner at Squire Pattern Box,
writing, "The UK government rolled out
the red carpet for President Trump." The
atmosphere certainly points to stronger
bilateral trade relations, including in
trade and investment. The former deputy
director of the NEC joins us now for
more. Everett, welcome to the program,
sir. Always good to hear from you.
They've rolled out the red carpet.
What's it achieved?
>> Well, so far it's given everything. I
mean, the the setup for this negotiation
today is really well done. Uh the
president's in a very good place. He's
excited about the visit. He's enjoyed
his time there. They're on with some of
the greatest innovators from uh the the
United States are sharing the the stage.
Um it's a good environment and I think
that can bode well for for the
discussion. Now, it doesn't mean that
everything's going to land in place, but
it certainly sets a warm environment
that I think makes the type of
negotiations, the type of issues you're
going to discuss easier to manage and
easier to resolve.
>> Everett, do you get a sense that the
United Kingdom, given the special
relationship, will actually achieve some
sort of carve out for steel, carve out
from other uh tariffs that are creating
a lot of difficulty right now
politically for that nation. I I don't
think any particular country is going to
get a full carve out. Um, however, I do
think that the uh United Kingdom is
probably going to get one of the best
deals out of any country thus far.
They've already set the stage for a good
framework. They've got better terms of
trade than than a number of other
countries. I think the first mover
advantage they had back in May made a
difference. They're building on that.
And one of the one of the interesting
dynamics here is that this second uh
discussion on trade is really part of an
ongoing dialogue that's that's been
transpiring ever since that that
framework agreement was reached. And
that's an important point because these
dialogues are going to continue to
evolve. They provide a lot of
opportunity for uh expanding issues
including things that will be discussed
um such as digital uh digital services
tax and other uh irritants that we still
have. So they're they're great framework
agreements and they put a good framework
for continued discussion.
>> There's also this question of who is
with the president right now. A whole
lot of tech leaders from the United
States and I'm sure you were just
listening to John and I rant about uh
the potential for capitalism to become
something of state planning but really
the very legitimate as John was pointing
out national security concerns. What do
you think from an economic and political
standpoint which you've held both hats
of this idea of the tech leaders being
the commensurate uh diplomats and for
this to be a tool of both international
outreach and national security?
>> It it is absolutely fascinating. I did
listen to your conversation. I agreed
with with much and most of what you
said. um the the fusion of national
security and technology and it it's it's
here to stay as is the relationship of
business to government. Now it's
obviously it's going to be different in
different economies but we're seeing
more and more um of that power of the
United States being projected
by the leaders that we have in the tech
world. And there's a lot at stake here.
There's a lot of issues they want to get
resolved in the international trading
environment. The fact that when you go
with the president on a state visit like
this as a corporate executive or a CEO,
it's a pretty magnificent opportunity to
have your issues front and center and it
sends a really strong message that this
matters and this is something that we
really need to work through.
>> Everett, how seriously should we take
the kind of announcements we've heard
from certain tech firms about investing
in places like the UK? Is that theater,
too, or is that actually the real deal?
>> Oh, I think it's the real deal. I mean,
I think it's and in fact, it's it's so
it's almost like soft diplomacy from the
from the private sector because they're
coming with with gifts, right? They're
saying, "If you can help us create an
environment that enables our industry to
thrive, we will invest in your country."
And that was one of the reasons that so
many countries enter into trade
agreements with the United States
because they're able to put their
economy in a place that attracts
investment. So, they're sending a very
strong message. uh there's some things
they'd like to see changed in in uh the
way that the uh UK government approaches
digital services and they're willing to
put their money down. I think it's very
real and it could could be a long-term
trend that we see perhaps with other
economies as well.
>> Everett Eisen with his view on what's
developing in the UK. Everett, thank
you, sir. The former NEC deputy
director. If it's real, is it
achievable? We've talked a lot about the
energy requirements for some of the
announcements we've heard over the last
week. I was actually just looking up UK
energy prices, spot prices over time,
and I'm trying to track it to really
understand exactly what you're talking
about. This is true around the world,
but especially so in the United Kingdom.
And you just wonder whether you can
achieve some of these lofty goals given
the political backdrop, cost of living
crisis, demands for people to bring down
the cost of living and the idea that
energy prices in the UK have risen quite
a bit over the past.
>> If you want a real-time price check,
just call my mom. I'll hand you the
phone. I get an update often.
>> Expensive. So sorry. Yeah, he can pay.
That's right.
>> He is. Don't worry about it. He is.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. With your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Tesla says it's
working on a redesign of its door
handles. The announcement follows a
Bloomberg investigation that uncovered
incidents of people getting trapped in
their vehicles. Earlier this week, the
National Transportation Highway Safety
Administration opened an investigation
into whether some Tesla doors are
defective.
Meta has launched the first version of
its smart glasses with a built-in
screen. The $799 Ray-B band display
features a screen in the right lens that
can show text messages, video calls,
directions, and maps, and visual results
from web searches. Meta CEO Mark
Zuckerberg says the product will be a
vehicle for what he calls AI super
intelligence.
Starbucks employees in three states
filed a class action lawsuit against the
coffee giant. The filing claims the
company violated the law when it changed
its dress code but refused to reimburse
employees who had to buy new clothes.
Starbucks's new dress code of a solid
black shirt under their green aprons
went into effect May 12th. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. You're
finding it difficult to censor yourself
this morning, aren't you?
>> Well, for a lot of reasons, but I think
that the idea that it is difficult and
you're going to sue over buying a black
t-shirt. I'm just struggling with that a
little bit.
Why do you think ultimately they are?
And it should the response be that
Starbucks isn't paying them enough to go
out and buy their own uniforms?
>> That might be the reason or it could be
the idea of individuality and the idea
of oh expressing yourself. Yeah. Big
issue of you know the Starbucks and the
individual expression and some of the
other messaging and some of the stores
and this could be a signal that if you
want us to be uniform you have to
compensate us appropriately for that
aspect. I don't know, but I'm assuming
that has more right there with you now
>> than just simply, you know, a black
t-shirt.
>> I'm a little bit slight this morning.
>> Well, I'm a little bit, you know,
slappy. So, there we go.
>> Meeting you in the middle. Up next on
the program, risk mitigation.
With downside risks to employment having
increased, the balance of risks has
shifted accordingly. We judged it
appropriate at this meeting to take
another step toward more a more neutral
policy stance. You can think of this in
a way as a riskmanagement cut. Up next,
Francis Donald of RBC from New York
City. You're watching Blueberg TV.
[Music]
Equity
futures on the S&P 500. There is a lift
here this morning up by 0.8%. A range of
views following the Federal Reserve.
This from Neil Data of Renmack. If
today's move was primarily about risk
management, I think there is a risk that
the Fed can fall behind on their
employment mandate later. So many
different views. Some people think their
pursuit of 2% is incredible on the
inflation side. Other people think
they're falling well behind on the
employment side.
>> Yeah. And Neil put out a note yesterday
saying uh remember AAM's razor. The idea
that if it looks like a duck and it
quacks like a duck, it is a duck. And
there is this idea that maybe if you see
weakness in the overlying uh numbers for
the payrolls report, there is true
weakness. And that's currently is a
concern. But right now, it's not felt in
markets.
>> We've certainly seen some weakness.
That's for sure. Under surveillance this
morning, risk mitigation.
>> Risks to inflation are tilted to the
upside and risks to employment to the
downside. A challenging situation with
downside risks to employment having
increased. The balance of risks has
shifted. Accordingly, we judged it
appropriate at this meeting to take
another step toward more a more neutral
policy stance. You can think of this in
a way as a riskmanagement cut. So,
here's the latest this morning. The
Federal Reserve cutting rates for the
first time this year, highlighting
downside risk to the labor market.
Francis Donald of RBC join us now for
more. Francis, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What's your assessment to what took
place yesterday?
>> I know we've probably said it a hundred
times since then, but this line, there
are no risk-free paths ahead. It kept me
up all night because I kept thinking,
this isn't just about the Fed. This is
also about the path for the economy. And
everything I heard yesterday felt very
much like a symptom of what we're
experiencing in the US economy as
opposed to what we're usually looking
at, which is the Fed leading what
happens next. And when we look at US
growth right now, it is true there are
no clear win paths ahead for the US.
Either we're going to see tariffs flow
through to consumers and see that higher
inflation path or it's going to result
in businesses needing to cut costs and
that's further job losses. Neither of
those paths are great. Maybe there's a
meddle through in the middle. So there's
no clear path for the Federal Reserve,
but there's also no clear path for the
US economy. Some symmetry between what
Chair Powell said and what's happening
in reality.
>> Do you think Chairman Powell has
revealed a preference, a risk he's
willing to take? Of course, they've
revealed a preference. I remember 69
months ago, we started talking about
stagflation light. What will the Fed do
with the dual mandate and tension?
They've now told us very explicitly a
little bit of a wobble in the labor
market. They are showing up to the party
with the punch bowl. No question. And
I'm going to push back a little bit
against Chair Powell if I may. And say
listen, like we haven't had great job
creation, but that unemployment rate
still very, very low. None of us know
the true break even rate for jobs in the
United States. So, we're at the very
beginning, in my opinion, of seeing some
labor market weakness, but we are also
in the very beginning of seeing
inflation heat up into year end. This
Federal Reserve is going to be cutting
rates into inflation reacelerating in
the United States economy. Uh, and that
reveals their preferences very clearly.
>> As an economist, how much signal did you
get from Steven Myron given his role,
given his position with the president,
given the fact that the Fed chair's
position will be open early next year?
Did you give it more weight or did it
give you less weight? Well, did you give
it less weight when you considered that
that Chris Waller and Mickey Bowman did
not join him?
>> Well, look, the number one theme I talk
to my clients about is the significant
fragmentation that is happening into the
United States economy that there are
halves and have nots. There are regions
that are doing really well and there are
regions that are suffering, people that
are doing really well, people that are
suffering at the same time. And so when
I look at that dot plot and the
divergence within it, it again mirrors
what's happening in the real economy,
which is a divergence of realities and a
divergence of perceptions of where we
need to go next. So this divergence
theme, I think it's going to continue no
matter who's in their positions because
these Fed members, they're looking at
different segments of the economy. They
have different responsibilities for
different regions. We should see
divergence in that dot plot if we have
uh folks who are focused on different
elements of the US economy.
>> I don't ask this flippantly, but is
monetary policy broken? And I say this
when you look at forward guidance that
kind of means nothing. You look at the
potential rates that the Fed has control
over and they affect some parts of the
economy but clearly not others in any
sort of meaningful way in terms of
slowing the economy or heating it back
up. It just raises the question, how
much efficacy has Fed policy lost? Well,
my outside voice would probably say
something like, oh, the transmission
mechanism is weakening. But my inside
voice tells me, hey, we've moved from
monetary policy dominance to fiscal
policy dominance. And I'm more concerned
about what is the path for government
going to look like? What's going to
happen to that long end of the curve?
And most importantly, when I look at
this economy, we have 25 basis points
in. 25 basis points is not going to
solve what ails the American economy.
100 basis points is not going to solve
what ails the American economy. It's
like taking ibuprofen for a broken arm.
It'll take the edge off. But the real
problem facing America right now is a
one in 100year trade shock that is going
to weigh on investment. It's going to
weigh on job creation and it's going to
increase prices.
>> So then why are people buying stocks and
convinced that inflation is going to
come down?
>> Well, it depends where you're looking
because this again a fragmentation that
trade shock creating a lot of
fragmentation between trade sectors and
not and let's not forget we're at this
strange nexus where we have these big
structural themes that are overtaking
the cyclical. We talk a lot about AI as
one of those structural themes
dominating over the cyclical, but we
also have huge government that puts a
floor under growth. Really mechanically
hard to get a recession when you have
governments that are this big. Huge
retirees, demographic shifts, and one in
three jobs in America is either
government, healthcare, or social
assistance. 20% of incomes in America
are government transfers coming through.
So, we don't have that same sort of
cyclicality that we had in the past.
This is an economy that's less interest
rate sensitive. It's less business cycle
sensitive on a go forward. Does that
mean it's broken? Well, maybe this is
just a different type of economy and we
need new tools to look at it. Hearing
Chair Powell yesterday wrestle with how
to communicate was really just another
symptom to me that economists are having
to grapple with a new economy, new tools
and new ways to forecast. I'm picking up
two things from you and I think this is
a fantastic experience for I think for
the both of us getting this original
insight on how you view the labor market
and inflation that perhaps one the
payrolls reports we've seen overstate
some of the weakness elsewhere in the
labor market and two you keep returning
to the fact that you expect inflation to
pick up now the chairman has essentially
said it could be the kind of inflation
the committee can look through would you
push back against that too
>> 100% now I accept goods inflation let's
just take that there's tariffs They're
one-offs as they say. Although just a
little asterisk on that, that's a little
more complicated because the tariffs
moved up and down. They spread. It's not
clear what products they're on etc. But
look under the hooded services
inflation. Services inflation is still
an issue. In our estimate, there's
different estimates. We have OEER
remaining sticky and we have wages
remaining relatively sticky, a floor
under that. So even if you take out
goods and even before tariffs are coming
through, we were concerned that the Fed
would not get back to 2% inflation in
2025 and into 2026 and just optically
getting above 3%. Our forecast is 3.4%
by the early 2026. Optically, it's real
hard to do that. But they can, John,
they can use any measure. Remember super
core uh Fed can come up with all sorts
of we're going to take this x this. If
they want to ease, they can do it.
They're going to have to be very
convincing to markets though.
>> Was it the Cleveland trimmed? Remember
playing around with that too? I've
played around with so many things and
then finally I just go to gas prices and
that's essentially my metric.
>> People's real experience of what's
happening.
>> I mean that or you can go to eggs or you
can go to chicken or you can go to
blackberries.
>> Francis, you alluded to this too. You
expect to see it in early 26. That's
soon. Is this going to become apparent
to more and more people in the months to
come?
>> Early 2026 to mid 2026. And we map out
when we think tariffs are going to start
to be impactful. I do not believe that
if tariffs were going to show up in the
price data that they would already be
here. uh we need to see significant
inventory drawdowns. They are different
by sector. So you have to look at each
individual sector to get a sense of
that. Uh and then companies have to make
decisions and those aren't happening in
real time. So early 2026 to mid 2026
before I'll feel comfortable sitting
with the two of you and saying this was
the impact of tariffs on the economy.
>> Yeah, credit to you too. I think it's
important for people who haven't been
following your research and some of the
commentary that you've had when you've
come on this program. This isn't a
marktomarket call. You've been talking
about this for a while. You're going to
have to wait. This is the process we've
been discussing, not a one-off event.
Wait, it's going to happen in the months
to come.
>> What Francis just uh discussed to me was
so refreshing. You are correct. The idea
of a very different economy that you
have to use new tools to analyze and how
difficult it is to really look at past
experience and pass it through to now
given all of the different cycles that
seem to be superimposed on top of one
another.
>> Chairman Pal's term ends as Fed chair in
May and there's all the speculation of
him hanging around and keeping his seat
as a governor on the board. Based on how
difficult things are right now, I'd be
looking forward to retirement. Wouldn't
you?
>> Just may. I'm getting out there.
>> I I I ask you, would you enjoy getting
up every month or every eight times a
year and doing that press conference?
>> If I had chairman Pal's personal balance
sheet
>> and a kind of money that I could command
for speeches on the circuit after all of
this, I'd be long gone.
>> I imagine it's pretty stressful. Yeah, I
imagine it's not an easy job.
>> I would be long gone. Francis, it's good
to see you. Francis Donald of RBC. Up
next on the program, Gagi Chowry of
Black Rockck, John Libra of Eurasia
Group, Kit Jukes of Selfchen, and the
former Kansas City Fed President Esther
George. The second hour of Bloom
Surveillance. Up next,
[Music]
there's a lot of tension between the
inflation outlook and the labor market
outlook.
>> I'm not that concerned about inflation.
There's a risk to the dual mandate. If
you pursue the maximum employment and
you put the inflation at risk,
>> they are cutting rates into that
environment. And
>> at the end of the day, you cannot get
full employment sustained unless you
really derail inflation.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and it starts with some breaking news.
We've got some things to get through.
This headline just crossing the
Bloomberg terminal. Nvidia to buy $5
billion in an Intel stake as part of a
new partnership.
>> This is a fascinating move given the
fact that these are longtime arch rivals
and Intel has been really struggling
ideas potentially of the US getting
involved in this agreement. Nvidia is
going to own less than a 5% stake,
buying common stock at about a 6.5%
discount to Wednesday's closing price.
And this really is a question of how
much the US is going to really
underwrite Intel's effort to be a
foundry and some sort of competitor to
TSMC. To your point earlier, this idea
of self-reliance in an uncertain
international world.
>> Intel up 13% in the pre-market. Nvidia
up by 2.5. Let's head down to Washington
DC to get you an update and get your
reaction from the UK as well where
Jensen Wang of Nvidia is on the ground
in the United Kingdom. Our team coverage
starts right now with Anarie and Tyler
Kendall. Tyler, first to you, a big
headline crossing the Bloomberg
terminal.
>> A big headline, quite the headline,
John, for two companies that the US
government has a vested interest in. In
a statement, we heard from the Nvidia
CEO Jensen Wong, who called this a
historic collaboration. And as part of
the deal, Intel is going to use Nvidia
graphic technology in upcoming PC chips.
And Nvidia will use some of Intel's
processors in order to meet the demand
from AI data centers. The idea here
being that they're really going to work
together when it comes to some of this
chip development. And it follows, of
course, a recent push from this
administration to bolster the domestic
chip supply chain. And of course, last
month, President Trump signing that deal
that gave the US government a 10% stake
in Intel in a bid to sort of repurpose
some of the existing Chips Act money.
And I'll also point out that Japan's
Soft Bank made a surprise $2 billion
investment in the company last month,
too, amid this mounting pressure from
the administration for this sort of
money to be put up in order to clinch
these trade deals. Now, I do want to
point out one pretty uh important stat
from the story that's now on the
terminal. Analysts estimate that at some
point next year, Nvidia will pull in
more revenue per quarter than Intel gets
in a year. Of course, John, as you well
know, this White House, this president
has really short up ties with Nvidia as
the company now finds itself really at
the center of some of these sensitive
trade negotiations.
>> Lisa, this is a really important
development. You just listen to what
Tyler was talking about there and the
president's involvement in all of this.
What's his objective? Build out domestic
foundry capacity. One, what needs to
happen after that? someone needs to use
it. And we've been talking about this
over the last month. Who would be pushed
to use it? This is not about the push
anymore. Nvidia essentially is telling
you they're ready to use it. They're
ready to partner with Intel to make this
happen.
>> Yeah. And specifically on certain chips
for PCs and other devices. The question
is whether this is going to be a big
effort or whether this is going to be
more uh performative. And this is
something that we've asked when it comes
to China and the Huawei move earlier.
this idea of is the technology
comparable or is it going to be tough to
move away from say TSMC and Taiwan for
the US chip manufacturers
>> Intel higher again up by 18% in the
pre-market on the ground in the UK and
Marie I imagine this announcement is
music to the ears of the president
>> absolutely the president has almost
become what a co-CEO of Intel putting a
lot of pressure one can imagine on a lot
of these companies since as Tyler
mentioned almost one month ago to the
day the US government decide decided to
take that 10% stake in Intel and the
question Jonathan you me and Lisa sat
around the table and asked who was going
to be next to either buy these chips
from Intel or invest in more money to
make sure that Intel could once again
become a national champion. So on one
front you once again have what many
would maybe call unconventional what the
US government did but certainly this is
going to mean that more support could be
flowing into the company like Intel. And
then to Lisa's point what did we hear
today out of Huawei out of Beijing? This
highlights a core issue for the United
States. Huawei basically announced a
multi-year plan to take on the dominance
Nvidia has in the marketplace. Howard
Lutnik, the commerce secretary, has said
time and time again, "We have to make
these chips in the United States. We
have to make sure we are dominant player
in this. We cannot lose to China."
Jensen Wang told me himself he doesn't
feel like China's behind. They're right
up against them in terms of where they
are in the market and in AI technology.
And the commerce secretary has said, "We
have to make these shifts in the US. We
can't rely on Taiwan." So from a
national security perspective, this
really is in line in something we've
seen from this White House. And once
again highlights I would be absolutely
shocked if the president and his team
had no influence on this. Highlights the
heavy hand they are really taking in the
semiconductor industry.
>> Amarie with the latest alongside Tyler
to the both of you. Thank you. A big
move for Intel in the pre-market higher
by 19%. Nvidia up too by 2.3%. The
headline just crossing 5 minutes ago.
Nvidia taking a $5 billion stake in
Intel as part of a new partnership. Some
other news crossing as well from the
Bank of England. I'm going to squeeze
that in for you. So rate rates haven't
changed on Thread Needle Street in the
city of London. They've kept those
interest rates at 4% but as expected
they've slowed the pace of QT to 70
billion pounds. The estimate indeed was
70 billion. The interesting adjustment
as well that's taken place here. They'll
sell fewer long-term guilts than other
maturities longdated bonds to account
for about 20% of sales from here. So
we've got a tech story and we've got a
bond market story too.
>> Yeah. And I wonder how much long-term
this is going to be connected. But just
sticking on the bond story, the idea of
the adjusting of the balance sheet, the
adjusting of just how their central bank
is going to deal with the issuance and
the lack of demand for long-term rates
is something that's a story playing out
across the world.
>> Let's park the bond market story. Let's
just sit on Nvidia. What a story this
emerged with Intel. First, the
government partnership and now Nvidia,
the champion of the whole sector,
arguably of the whole equity market,
giving them an endorsement and the
support that they might need to succeed
in the future. As an investor, how do
you invest around this? Is this more the
idea of having faith that the US
government and potentially other tech
companies will do whatever it takes to
support Intel even if they make
missteps? I mean, this stock is up
before this move today uh almost 24% so
far this year. Although it's been
struggling for a number of different
years, but how much is this faith that
there is so much interest in making this
a national champion and a foundry that
tech companies in the US can use that
it's very difficult to bet against that?
How much is that something as an
investor you can move against?
>> Gagi Chadri of Black Rockck joins us
around the table. Gagi, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> I know we won't address single names,
but I do want to understand the
concentration risk around some of these
stories. How much of the fate of this
market is in the hands of just one name,
one CEO, one story?
>> Sure. Good morning. Good to be here. So,
this is exactly the theme that we write
about in our fall investment directions
that we wrote in um early September.
Still very relevant now. And the theme
that we highlight there is, you know, we
all grew up in the markets hearing the
old fable of don't fight the Fed. Now,
it's don't fight the Fed and don't fight
the AI trade because that is what is
going to drive uh drive sectors and it's
what's going to drive the overall
performance of the index. Yes. due to
some of the names very much being uh a
part of the broader index but those few
names the top 10 names are also where
the majority of the earnings growth is
coming from and while we read these
headlines I think we shouldn't lose
sight of that fact that if you look at
year-to- date returns 75% or so have
come from of of the total returns have
come from earnings and when we see these
headlines and we recognize what the
future of of an Intel and Nvidia is
going to do I think what it points to is
further earnings growth just driving the
S&P higher. So keep AI as a core theme
in your equity portfolio. But I think uh
more and more we're recognizing that
you're going to have to do it in an
active manner because there's certainly
going to be names that are going to be
losers within this AI race and winners
in as well. How are you active in
management given the potential for
political overlays to the tech story as
we've seen from the US and from China?
What I mean by how how one can be active
is obviously thinking about certain
sectors or certain stocks themselves
that can uh not be as much of a
beneficiary and we actually saw that
around this earning season, right? We
saw some software names that are not
able to uh use AI as much as one would
have thought as much as expectations
were were and are absolutely losing and
then obviously you have more of the
hyperscalers as well as the chip
manufacturers that are very much able to
participate. So that is the active
management obviously you know in our
fall investment directions we talk about
doing that through NISHA's active ticker
B AI but investors can also do it with
you know broad large cap ETFs they can
do it through broad large growth ETFs
versus moving away from small caps which
has been our theme for the year okay
that is exactly where I wanted to go
this idea of don't fight the Fed and
don't fight the AI theme are they in
conflict and this is the way that they
were yesterday the idea that people saw
this is an opportunity to go out of some
of the high-f flyers and the expensive
stocks and into small caps that were
less uh less highly valued and you saw
that rotation yesterday. You think
that's a head fake based on what you
just said? Why?
>> I think so. So, I think that uh we
obviously saw August as a great month
for small caps and then as September
came around, we've seen that fading just
a little bit. Historically, we've looked
at periods where small caps have
outperformed the large caps in more than
3 to 500 basis points. it hasn't really
been able to be very sustainable and
partly it's the growth story in small
caps you just don't have that earnings
growth but broadly we all know what's
happening I think Francis was talking
about it earlier in terms of the economy
is changing and the rules that led to
our investment thesis last decade will
not work now many companies are staying
private for so much longer that
companies when they finally go public as
we can see the size of IPO O is going
from about 3 to 500 million to over a
billion. They're now no longer small cap
companies. So the market is shifting.
You have a also from a macro
perspective, rates are still higher than
the sort of zero regime that we were in
for a very long time and you don't have
the earnings growth. So I think we can
see certain uh short-term movements and
I think we've seen investors play that
via options on things like IWM
absolutely do that. But this is not a
sustainable theme. Come back to large
cap. Come back to growth. Come back to
AI.
>> Come back home. There's a massive
difference between what is driving the
Fed and what is driving the equity
market, public markets. What's driving
the Fed is payroll's growth. And what's
driving the equity market, the S&P 500,
the capex intentions of a handful of
companies, and that's been a long long
long-term story now. and the capex that
is geared at creating technology to make
humans more efficient potentially to
replace some of the functionality of
humans which is in direct conflict with
the idea of job creation a lot of people
will push back and say actually it will
just make our jobs better and enhance
them and actually create other jobs and
like every tech revolution which I am
open to but this is sort of the conflict
the difficulty in understanding the
Fed's reaction function to that sort of
seismics structural change
>> intel by the way still climbing high by
almost 30% in the pre-market
unbelievable Gaga, good to see you.
>> Good to be here.
>> Didn't expect that breaking news. Thanks
for dropping by Gaga Chowry there of
Black Rockck on the market. Let's give
an update on that story with Nvidia and
Intel and a whole lot more with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Yes, recapping that breaking
news we got just a few minutes ago.
Nvidia investing $5 billion in Intel.
The company said they will co-develop
chips for PCs and data centers. Nvidia
will buy Intel Common Stock at $2328 per
share. That's a 6 and a half% discount
to Wednesday's closing price.
The Bank of England holding rates steady
at 4% amid growing concerns about a
resurgence in inflation. The bank kept
its guidance and warned that future
costs will be quote gradual and careful
and dependent on the extent to which
underlying disinflationary pressures
continue to ease.
And shares of Cracker Barrel plunging in
the pre-market after the company's sales
guidance missed expectations. The weaker
than expected outlook comes as the
restaurant chain is dealing with the
fallout from its controversial and
short-lived logo change. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, a
priceless partnership.
>> The bond of kinship and identity between
America and the United Kingdom is
priceless and eternal. It's
irreplaceable and unbreakable. We'll
talk about an old partnership, the UK
and the US and a new partnership, Intel
and Nvidia. Up next with John Lieieber
of Eurasia Group live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Breaking news just moments ago, 16
minutes ago, and this is the outcome. Up
33% for Intel in the pre-market. Nvidia
agreeing to invest $5 billion in Intel
and saying the two will co-develop chips
for PCs and data centers.
>> And this comes after the US already
discussing taking a stake in Intel.
Those shares already up more than 20% so
far this year, largely on the heels of
that government intervention. Is Jensen
Wong now part of the government uh sort
of intervention for Intel? Is that what
partly is behind this?
>> Okay. So, I think you're framing this in
the right way. You're coming in the
right direction. Is this a partnership
between Jensen Wang and Intel or Jensen
Wang and the White House?
>> Exactly. This to me underscores whether
this is actually a real partnership that
will be a more widespread production hub
of Intel for the likes of Nvidia going
forward. whether it can be a compet
competitor to the likes of the Taiwan
Semiconductor Company or if this is
performative to try to say look yes Mr.
President, I am supporting the domestic
push for independence
>> under surveillance this morning. A
priceless partnership.
>> We're joined by history and faded by
love and language. We're like two notes
in one court. Each beautiful on its own,
but really meant to be played together.
The bond of kinship and identity between
America and the United Kingdom is
priceless and eternal. It's
irreplaceable and unbreakable.
>> The president reflecting on an old
partnership between the United Kingdom
and the United States. Later on today at
a reception with top tech executives, he
can reflect on a new one. A new
partnership between Intel and the Nvidia
CEO Jensen Wang. Joining us now on the
ground in the UK is Bloomberg's Amarie.
Amarie, we've been talking about it. You
help break the news. Is this a
relationship between Jensen Wang and
Intel or Jensen Wang and the president?
Well, John, it certainly seems like this
is a relationship between Jensen Wang
and President Donald Trump. Jensen Wang
has been a consistent presence in this
White House alongside the president
throughout this entire second term.
Remember, it was Jensen Wang that was in
the Middle East with the president and
then he continuously called out. Jensen
Wang was his friend, but his other
friend Tim Cook decided not to come.
Well, who was here on his UK state
visit? Jensen Wang of course who this
week in the United Kingdom said that he
is going to be marking this week as the
week the AI became um a the UK became an
AI powerhouse and also Tim Cook. What
CEOs are starting to realize is you need
to have that access to power in this
administration and it does seem like we
don't have full reporting yet. We have
not heard a comment yet from the White
House, but when the US government a
month ago to the day took a 10% stake in
Intel, you pretty much saw that Donald
Trump was going to be the Intel co-CEO
ultimate salesman probably was going to
go around talk to other tech companies
and say, "What can we do to make sure we
save this business and more companies
are buying chips from Intel and we build
up this national champions?" And that
seems to what is being done right now if
you connect all of these dots and it's
not going to be lost on anyone. The
president comes out in 30 minutes time
at this business reception where Jensen
Wang is likely going to be sitting. He's
going to want to talk about this kind of
collaboration in the semiconductor
industry which we've seen a massive
heavy hand from the president himself
get involved in.
>> Amarie, thank you. That stock is flying
in higher by 29% so far this morning. To
extend the conversation, John Lieieber
of Eurasia Group joins us now for more.
John, I'm sure you've been tracking the
breaking news of the last 20 minutes or
so. How are you reflecting on this new
era of state craft led by the president,
Donald Trump?
>> Yeah, I mean, the US is in its uh it's a
state capitalism era right now. And I
think that Donald Trump is doing these
deals and he's pressuring companies
because he wants to create national
champions. There's a lot of concern
about the competition between the United
States and China in the AI space and
semiconductors. And Trump hasn't been
shy about um you know cajoling and even
bullying CEOs to get what he wants and
and the CEOs see an tremendous
opportunity to partner with the United
States government and get access to
capital um and get these diplomatic
visits that are going to result in tens
of billions of dollars in new
investments in the United Kingdom which
of course itself has a diplomatic
overlay as well because of the US's
growing hostility to the regulatory
environment in the European Union. And
so part of this trip is about bringing
the UK a little bit closer uh and and
announcing that this partnership with US
businesses is much stronger in order to
send a signal to the Europeans that you
know the environment really matters if
you want to attract US investment in US
partnership.
>> What's the precedent for you John that
really matters when it comes to looking
at the US trying to support national
champions for national security reasons
for an entire industry?
I'm not sure there is a precedent like
this. I mean, you know, you think about
the aerospace industry, I guess, during
the Cold War, um, and the emergence of a
number of the large prime contractors,
defense contractors that the US deals
with. Uh, there's probably other
examples as well that I'm just I'm not
as familiar with. I think this era is
truly unprecedented though given the
speed of tech acceleration, the
dominance of these companies in the
marketplace and of course the ongoing
threat from China which isn't stopping
its own innovative path and is going to
eventually um have technology that
competes with the US uh toe-to-toe and I
think that's a major concern of policy
makers and they see it coming and that's
one of the reasons there's so much
support going into this industry right
now. John, maybe I'm going too far down
a rabbit hole, but one of the obstacles
for the United States to really compete
when it comes to a foundry, the actual
manufacturing of a chip, has been
training. There is an entire ecosystem
in Taiwan around training workers to
specifically be able to do pretty uh
highly skilled jobs to make these really
uh advanced chips. I'm just wondering,
is there any appetite in Congress to
come up with training programs or
training incentives to try to uh create
the workforce to really meet the moment
in the United States?
>> Yeah, worker training is something that
Congress has been trying to get right
for decades and I I think they haven't
quite got it right yet. there's a lot of
support for, you know, community
colleges or technical training programs
or apprenticeship programs like they
have in Germany, but the US is such a
big messy place that it hasn't really
gotten that together. And I think it's
important that you mention these
bottlenecks which are of course a
challenge for the administration across
the board. You've got energy, you've got
labor, you've got talent. And it's also
notable that I think that it's hard to
really see a co coherent strategy here
from the White House when one part of
the administration doesn't know what the
other part is doing. You look at the
raid on Hyundai last week and you know
this was driven by DHS agents who were
looking for a big bust and that was
directly antithetical to this idea that
you'd want to attract foreign investment
and build some of these high-tech
manufacturing plants. This is going to
be a problem in the semiconductor
industry as well because of exactly what
you said the US lacks the talent and
needs the migrants coming in to do so.
So I think over time we'll see uh the US
get that policy mix right and I think
that the but because of the lack of
training you're going to see a continued
reliance on foreign workers.
>> John I'm pleased you said that it's
going to take time and we have to give
it time and space but do you think there
will be long-lasting consequences of
that raid on highle day? Yeah, I mean
this raid was a top story in Korea and
in South Korea and you and you had
workers who were, you know, deported
from the United States for doing
absolutely nothing wrong. And I think
this was seen as a major breach of trust
uh by the South Korean government. I
thought it was notable that in the truth
social post Trump put up, he basically
apologized. He didn't say the words,
"I'm sorry." But he more or less
apologized to the South Koreans for
having deported uh you know, hundreds of
them. And I think that this is some an
issue of trust when looking at the
United States. If I'm the Japanese
looking at the investment accelerator
that was recently announced, if I'm the
South Koreans, if I'm the Europeans, I
think there's an issue of trust that you
can't really rely on the US to follow
through on its promises and that's going
to be hard for the and of course the US
market is massive. There's billions of
dollars at stake and these countries and
these companies want to be inside the
US, but it's very difficult to trust the
administration right now.
>> John Lieieber of your Asia Group. John,
thanks for jumping on and reacting to
that breaking news. Intel in the
pre-market higher by more than 28%.
Nvidia up to Nvidia higher by more than
3%. Wouldn't you love to be at that
banquet today just to hear that
conversation between the president and
the Nvidia boss?
>> I've actually been looking up different
royalty movies from the 1800s in Britain
to see what the uh what the parallel is
to some of those scenes and what the
women have to wear. Although the attire
for the women is somewhat different than
the men, the white tie, the white bow
tie and the cumber bun and all that.
>> I'm not really cut from that cloth, so I
wouldn't know.
>> Well, I wouldn't I wouldn't per se. I'm
just looking at that and thinking I'd
probably be more interested in that. Uh
just trying to wrap my head around how
to fit into that than I would the
conversations. I don't know how much
actual stuff gets done at a meeting.
>> I imagine the president already knew
anyway. I'm not sure this is going to be
not sure this is going to be a new
development for him. We're watching this
come together in real time. This new era
of state craft mistakes can happen. This
can get messy. I know. But this is the
direction of travel being driven by this
White House.
>> So who's next? And I think that that's
the key question. which tech giant is
next to commit in some capacity to using
Intel as a foundry and can they do that
with Intel pulling up its resources in
tandem to meet the moment and that I
think has been the capability question
that we've been asking not just for the
US but also for China
>> what does Nvidia get in return does this
open the door to certain chips being
exported to China
>> great question
>> you know these are things we got to talk
about that
>> we'll talk about that kit jigs of sog's
going to join us shortly and we'll get
you some movers the big mover in the
pre-market Intel absolutely flying
[Music]
equities flying up by 0.8% this morning
on the S&P 500 up by more than 1% on the
NASDAQ up by 1.5 on the Brussel. It's
only one story in town though in the
last 30 minutes or so. So let's get to
your morning movers. Let's touch base
with you Hierra for more. How are you
hierra?
>> Exactly John. We are seeing a massive
move in Intel shares. are rising now 26%
on in on news that Nvidia is investing
$5 billion and that the two will team up
to co-develop chips for PCs and data
centers as the AI infrastructure
buildout continues. Nvidia also rising
on the news down up 3 and a4% but AMD
left out of the party. It is down 5.4%
4%. But going back to the partnership,
it just feels like something bigger,
especially after the US recently took a
10% stake in Intel to prop up the
American chip maker. Meanwhile, we are
seeing shares of PayPal rising on
another partnership. It is partnering
with Google. So shares are up 2%. They
are going to partner up in online
shopping, combining PayPal's checkout
tools with Google's AI. And this is part
of something bigger down the line that
could include letting autonomous AI
agents shop for you. As if I need more
help shopping. Meanwhile, we have Novo
Nordis shares. They are rising 7% after
new data showed that Ompic outperformed
Eli Lilly's Trulicity in a massive study
involving 60,000 people. It showed that
Medicare patients on Ompic were 23% less
likely to have a heart attack, stroke,
or die. And for NOGO, this is the edge
that it wants to present in the GLP1
race that its treatments do a better job
than Eli Liy's at warding off heart
disease. Shares are up on that news.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Let's get back to that main story. On
our radar this morning, Intel shares
surging in the pre-market. Nvidia
announcing a $5 billion investment in
its rival. The two will co-develop chips
for PCs and data centers. And I do
wonder about what Jensen Wang's
relationship will be with the CEO of
Intel, especially because of his support
from the president. Yes, this stake is
less than a 5% stake in Nvidian in in
Intel. I'm talking about the stake that
Nvidia is making. And yet the idea that
they're working together, I wonder how
much this is, Mr. President going to
Jensen Wang and saying, you know, you
could really get your fingerprints in
this. You've done a really good job at
Nvidia. Maybe take a look at what they
need to really get this underway. I'm
just in the realm of speculation, but
there is this sort of larger push to
make international champion and I wonder
how much Nvidia is going to be a helping
hand.
>> So many different dimensions to this.
Let's build on the dimension we were
talking about just moments ago. The
prospect that Nvidia has its own ask and
wants to open the door to exporting the
high-tech chips it would like to be
selling into China, the money maker,
Blackwell. Do you think the door opens
off the back of this? Is that going to
be part of the ongoing conversation with
the administration? because we've seen
over the last few months based on the
experience we've had with foreign
diplomacy that Jensen Wang's ideas have
been a key part of the change at the top
of this administration and perhaps he's
pushing still to export those chips into
China.
>> It goes to the question that you asked
earlier. Is there a real conflict here?
And there's a real tension rising for
the likes of Nvidia of how long they can
count on their China business and how
important that can be to the company
given the push back that you're seeing
in China on some of their local
companies using Nvidia's products. So
there's this tension here that there is
a push for Nvidia to invest more on
domestic production in the United States
because of tension between the US and
the rest of the world in particular uh
China. And there's a push from China not
to use US chips in Chinese tech products
and at the same time will there still be
the ask by Nvidia to have a larger
presence in China
>> possibly because if they can export that
now they know they'll be depended on and
they won't develop that technology
themselves maybe that's the hope at
least that's the theory to turn to
things domestically all the incentives
are aligned here I think between all the
partners anyway involved in this Intel
Nvidia the administration they all have
a reason to build out domestic foundry
capacity
And Nvidia has a big incentive to make
sure it's a success because the last
position they want to find themselves in
several years down the road is being in
a position where they're being coerced
and pushed to use foundry capacity that
doesn't have the cutting edge technology
that they require to build the chips
they want to make.
>> And it has the extra added uh edge to it
that it takes a really long time to get
foundaries up and operational. And it is
a money losing operation which has been
the challenge that Pat Gellzinger kind
of complained about for a long time
before he left as CEO. So, it seems like
this is the effort that the White House
is making to try to fortify this
project.
>> Nvidia up in the pre-market by more than
3%. The clear winner here though is
Intel flying high by almost 30% in early
trading. We're going to stay on top of
that story for you. I believe Dan Ies of
Wed Bush is going to join us in about 40
minutes time. The Big Bull himself on
this show to get his thoughts on the
breaking news of the last hour.
Elsewhere, JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond
making a surprise visit to Capitol Hill
yesterday and meeting with Senate
Republicans. Diamond Seni told the
lawmakers he's not worried about Fed
independence and US economic growth is
so far so good. And finally, newly
minted Fed Governor Steven Mronin
pushing for a 50 basis point cut in
yesterday's FOMC meeting. The Trump
appointee acting as the lone denter in
the board's vote to lower rates by 25
basis points.
>> I thought it was interesting that when
you took a look at prediction markets
after the fact that his chance of being
the next Fed chair rose substantially,
almost doubled from 11% to 20% after
that decision. And I just wonder whether
his view to your point earlier was
viewed by markets as credible. He didn't
go for 125 basis points in one meeting.
Yes. By the end of the year, but still
there was this feeling that maybe there
was a credibility about him that allowed
people to accept him as a governor that
maybe there were rumors that that
wouldn't be the case earlier. So, in the
news conference, let's park the word
credible and talk about the word
persuasive because I think that's what
Chairman Pal ultimately addressed just
yesterday that any one individual has to
be persuasive enough to get other people
on the committee to come with them.
Governor Wallace talked about this
directly too. As a governor, it's your
job to go to the meeting and ultimately
persuade others to come around to the
way you're thinking about the world and
clearly Governor Waller and Governor
Bowman did not join in in that. And I
wonder if the ultimate compromise was, I
wasn't in the room and I don't know, but
I'm just speculating, was that for
Governor Waller and Governor Bowman, the
commitment, if we can call it that
loosely, to go a few more times into
year end was worth it just to keep
people on the same page and not descent
by pushing for 50. Just acknowledge that
the committee will come with you to go
another 25 at the next meeting and
another 25 at the meeting after that.
>> I wonder if retail sales spooked them
also. I mean, I do think that you're
correct, but the fact that retail sales
was mentioned as many times as it was,
at least by Chair Powell, suggests that
maybe there is this feeling that the
risks truly are two-sided, but I I hear
what you're saying that maybe there was
a greater ground swell to keep going,
which gave them comfort to just go 25.
>> Governor Wall has been around, he's seen
it all. He's strategic. He knows how
this works to ultimately get what you
want. Don't embarrass people and you'll
get there anyway. Although some people
were speculating given the fact that uh
Mickey Bowman and Chris Waller didn't
descent with 50, does that take them out
of the running?
>> They're out the race now
>> for becoming the next Fed chair. This
was one speculation out there.
>> Let's stick with the Federal Reserve.
Let's get to the FX market. The dollar
erasing losses after Fed chair Jay Pow
described Wednesday's rate decision as
quote a riskmanagement cut. Kit Juice of
Sockchen joins us now for more. Kit,
welcome to the program. Did you get a
few more reasons to be short the dollar
yesterday?
>> Um I don't think I got more. I think I
got comfort, I actually got probably got
more comfort than anything watching the
dollar sell off again um this morning
because I came in to find that it
advanced quite a lot. Um but yeah, look,
the the you know, the Fed's going to be
cutting rates, the US economy is slowing
at the margin. The president wants a
weaker aer dollar. Uh I and I think and
I think we're still in a position where
the world has got a lot of underhedged
US assets. That's going to get cheaper
to hedge. Um and and you think more
people will feel a sense that I I
probably ought to be less long the
currency even if I want to have uh as
much tech stock as I can or or whatever
else it is I need.
>> Okay. Is that the great repatriation and
is Japan at the epicenter of that flow
story?
>> Um Japan somewhere in that flow story. I
don't think it's necessarily a great
repatriation as a d-risking of the
currency exposure itself. Um, in other
words, I I'm I'm not convinced that that
that anybody's ready to to give up on US
technology outperformance as an
investment case or or as US equities
outperforming over the long run. I think
there are people at the margin who who
may think the Nicay looks cheaper than
it did or or the European equities do,
but but the big issue is just the sheer
scale of the long dollar position as
well. That that's what feels uh feels
too big. Kit, how long can people keep
buying US equities from overseas and
hedging the dollar? This seems to be
what everyone has been doing. Is this
something that is intention? Is this
something that can persist for an
ongoing time with the idea of a
weakening dollar and a strengthening US
equity market?
>> Um, well, you need the hedging cost to
get cheaper so that people can hedge,
you know. So the temptation not to hedge
is a function of of interest rate
differentials and it being expensive to
hedge your your your equity exposure as
US rates come down relative to elsewhere
that cost is going to come down as well
to hedge. So, I think you'll see more
people um looking at it saying, "Look, I
still like the US economy at the margin.
I still want to own US equities. Um
there isn't a real alternative. Um but
I'm but I just I just don't need to be
allin unhedged long both an expensive
currency and a highly valued equity
market.
>> The idea of a Federal Reserve that's
going to prioritize growth over
inflation is the reason why a lot of
people are saying like you there is this
ongoing dollar weakness. But at what
point does growth outweigh some of the
potential inflation if the inflation
isn't that significant? The idea of
growth differentials driving FX as much
as anything else.
>> I I think growth differentials are
becoming more and more important. Um but
we also have plenty of uncertainty about
growth differentials. So you know as we
saw I mean earlier this year we saw a
big downgrade in people's forecasts of
what the US economy was going to do this
year and next. They've edged a little
bit back up and then the European ones
have edged back up as well. I I think
the next sizable move is going to be
driven by how people think of of the US
economy in in the next 69 12 months. You
know, are we going to see that the
inflation growth trade-off gets worse or
are we going to see that actually the
inflation hit from uh from tariffs isn't
very big and the US economy can can fly
on by? I I think there's I think we
picked it up from the FOMC as well
yesterday. Really, there is just
astonishing uncertainty about the growth
outlook, but the dollar's biggest single
vulnerability is a slowing economy.
>> Well, Kit, let's build on that. We can
enter a different regime. Sometimes it's
rates, sometimes it's growth
differentials, sometimes it's just about
investor flows for whatever reason. K,
if it's about growth differentials, the
Europeans have set the bar pretty low.
They're basically telling you based on
the ECB forecast, whatever the staff
forecasts are worth, they're basically
telling you things are going to be in
the low ones, something around 1% for
Europe in 2026. K based on what we've
heard from the Fed, they're willing to
support growth. The real story in
equities on this side of the pond is
that we're going to see this
reaceleration in growth in 26. And I
just wonder from a growth differentials
perspective, whether the risk is cutting
the other way.
>> Um, at the moment, I think the big
question mark is how much the US economy
is going to slow. So if the US ended up
in let's call it the low ones and Europe
in the low ones I think at that point I
would I would see a significantly weak
euro but but I agree with you on on
anything other than than a short-term
view which is that you know this is why
I don't think euro dollar can go to 130
140 150 it got to 160 once you know
we're never going to get back to those
levels this is this is going to be the
limiting factor for this dollar selloff
likewise we're not going to see the yen
go back to uh 100 for dollar yen um
anytime soon I And soon I mean decades
in that sense. Uh you know so so I think
we've we we've got a we've got a
correction here that's got further to go
and and it's going to you know it's
going to make the foreign exchange
market happy. I hope and it's going to
certainly attract attention but um let's
not get too excited. You know I don't
think that on a 10-year view um Europe
can outgrow the United States.
>> Kit appreciate your insight. Kit JS
there a sock genen listen to the
different questions that people are
asking right now. Kit's asking himself
just how much is the US going to slow
and you've got equity investors coming
on the program talking about how quickly
is the US economy going to accelerate in
26. Two completely different questions.
>> Every executive who we've spoken to in
the United States over the past week has
talked about a reaceleration in the
United States and the pent-up demand
that you're seeing in things like retail
sales and mergers and acquisitions that
are floating to the surface. So it
speaks to even with some sort of
reaceleration how much is actually
priced in.
>> Looking at the dollar right now, a fair
bit of weakness based on the year we've
had. Dollar strength bouncing back just
a touch so far this morning by about a
tenth of 1%. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloombo brief. Let's cross over to
Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Well, shares of
Alphabet rising in the pre-market. The
Financial Times reporting China is
dropping its antitrust investigation
into the dominance of Google's Android.
The announcement comes ahead of Friday's
scheduled call between President Donald
Trump and China's Chihinping.
Tesla is working on a redesign of its
door handles. The move comes after a
Bloomberg investigation that uncovered
incidents of people getting trapped in
their vehicles. The redesign will make
the handles more intuitive in a panic
situation.
An off- the- field victory for the NFL's
Washington Commanders. The team won
approval from the DC council to move
forward with a nearly $4 billion plan
for a new stadium and mixeduse
development site on the grounds of its
former home at RFK Stadium. President
Trump had previously threatened to block
the new stadium if the team didn't
change their name back to the Washington
Redskins. And that is your boo brief.
John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, the Lone Descent.
19 participants of of whom 12 vote as
you know on a rotating basis. The only
way for any voter to really move things
around is to be incredibly persuasive.
>> In just a moment we'll catch up with the
former can Kansas City Fed President
Esther George from New York City this
morning. Good morning. And you're
watching Blake TV.
[Music]
Two days of very mild losses in the
equity market and bouncing back pretty
strongly this Thursday morning. Up by
3/4 of 1% on the S&P, up by 1/4
percentage point on the Nasdaq and the
outperformance on the Russell return
small caps higher by 1.3%.
The movers to watch this morning. Intel,
Nvidia, Intel up by close to 30%. If
you're just joining us, you missed quite
the announcement 50 minutes ago. Nvidia
agreeing to invest $5 billion in Intel,
saying the two will co-develop chips for
PCs and data centers.
>> Yeah, that's almost a 5% stake that
Nvidia is taking Intel uh in Intel at a
time when the government has clearly
thrown its weight behind Intel to try to
make it into a viable competitor with
foundaries across the world. A real
question about how far this partnership
will go and who's next.
>> Dan I is going to join us next says
this. This is bullish for Nvidia and
Intel brings Intel to the table on AI
and could change the thesis. Goes on to
say this could change the way the stock
is valued. It's a huge gamecher.
>> I wonder how much this is a vote behind
the idea of Jensen Wang also having a
seat at the table when it comes to Intel
management because it's been a real
question. You know, Pat Galsinger left,
new CEO came in. A question of how do
you do this in a way where it takes a
long time to get a foundry up and
running and then convincing people to
use them when TSMC is very good at what
they do.
>> That stock is the big winner so far this
morning. Let's turn back to the Federal
Reserve under surveys this morning. The
lone descent.
>> 19 participants of of whom 12 vote as
you know on a rotating basis. The only
way for any voter to really move things
around is to be incredibly persuasive.
And the only way to do that in the
context in which we work is to make
really strong arguments based on the
data and your one's understanding of the
economy. That's in the DNA of the
institution. That's not going to change.
So here's the latest this morning. The
Fed chair J Pal attempting to unite a
divided committee at this week's policy
meeting with the newest governor Steven
Min. The only vote against the quarter%
interest rate cut. Joining us now to
discuss the former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George. Esther, welcome
back to the program. I love talking to
you about this because you've
experienced it. You've been there.
You've desented on the committee
yourself personally and you've seen dot
plots with huge dispersion and a wide
range of outcomes for the years ahead.
Is this different somehow from what
you've seen and lived? Is this somehow
different what we saw yesterday?
>> Well, it's different in this sense,
Jonathan. You have a lot uh swirling
around today's economic decisions that
have to be made about monetary policy.
They come from challenges to the
institution itself. They're coming from
an economy that is far from clear in
terms of what the ultimate impact is.
And again, this is a committee that has
to think about the long run even as they
make today's decisions. And so you have
dramatic changes in trade policy and
immigration policy all that are hitting
directly on both uncertainty about where
that long run is as well as where are
things landing today. So not surprising
I think that you see this kind of
dispersion given the changes going on in
the economy.
>> Given that kind of type of a backdrop do
you think Esther that we're looking at a
scenario where forward guidance has no
value anymore?
Well, I don't think this is a time you
can make forward guidance and really
forward guidance can be fraught anytime
because we live in a dynamic economy.
Things can change that make it hard for
the central bank to fulfill commitments
like that. And so again, this is a time
where you hear from businesses, they are
still sorting out what the endgame looks
like here. they are still sorting out
what uh increased costs are going to
mean to both their bottom line to their
employment status and so it's hard to
put a pin that you can see a clear
direction for the economy I think you
heard that coming out of the meeting
yesterday the committee had to make a
decision uh they made a decision but the
dispersion I think belies some of the
consensus you saw
>> Esther can you talk a little bit about
how hard it is to persuade fellow
governors to get on your side when you
do dissent, when you do disagree with
them, how difficult it is to make that
case.
>> Yeah. So, it's a requirement of the job.
I always I always thought in that and
certainly you are trying to articulate
in a very thoughtful way the factors
that weigh on your judgment, how you put
the weight on different variables, which
everyone around that table is doing. At
the end of the day though, that you are
the lone denter that the majority makes
a decision in a different place doesn't
necessarily undermine the argument
that's being made. It simply says that
the weight was in another direction and
there was consensus built around a
different view. I think what's important
is that you don't dismiss um entirely
when you hear dissenting voices about
what it means. Esther, as you look
through the forecast, a lot of people
have called them highly contradictory.
There's some odd things going on just in
terms of upgrading the outlook for
growth and then cutting interest rates.
Some things don't make sense to some
people. You know, when these things were
introduced, the dot plot and forecast,
it was to enhance communication. Do you
think we've got to the point where it
started to compromise it?
>> Well, that's been the case at many times
uh since the introduction of that dot
plot. And again, I think it always bears
reminding people this is not a committee
forecast. Yes, you can draw some
conclusions about tendencies and and the
medians where they come out for this
committee, but when you see dispersion
like this, it tells you that we are we
are looking pretty short term. This idea
of meeting to meeting sounds right to
me. You don't have a committee that
agrees on what the long run is. And
that's true either of their long run Fed
funds forecast. Those are ranging from,
you know, below 2 and a.5% to closer to
four. That tells you that this idea
about how restrictive they are uh has a
lot of different views coming to bear uh
at the table.
>> Esther, I think a lot of people would
agree with you, most in fact, that you
shouldn't draw too many conclusions from
those forecasts. But there is one
uncomfortable conclusion that many
people have drawn and that this
institution is no longer credibly
pursuing the 2% inflation target. Is
that an unfair criticism?
>> Well, the committee certainly has not
said that. We have not heard the
chairman say that. But I think the
actions here put them at risk over the
next uh few months frankly because they
continue to push away from thinking that
inflation although characterized as an
upside risk is one that they are not
going to be able to deal with. And I
think the challenge there is this is a
committee that has relied heavily on
anchored inflation expectations.
And as those move and as the public,
which has experienced high inflation, I
think this will become a real challenge
for the committee under the the forecast
that they've laid out.
>> Esther, you're always generous with your
time and we appreciate leaning on some
of your experience as well. Essa George
there, the former Kansas City Fed
president. That was one of our big
questions yesterday afternoon.
>> Yeah. Exactly what the response would be
to inflation that went up. Was it a
short-term one off or is it something
that the Fed is going to take under
consideration? What Esther George said
there was really interesting inflation
expectations in the public? Which
inflation expectations? Are we talking
about the University of Michigan
about the break even rates in markets?
How does the Fed measure this given the
difficulty getting your arms around such
a concept? Muhammad Alerian said this a
few years ago. Took some heat for it,
too. He said, "If you were to design a
new inflation target for the Federal
Reserve, it wouldn't be two. It'd be
closer to three. The world's changed.
The world's changed."
>> And right now, it seems like tacitly
this Fed is acknowledging that, saying
two years. Two years. Yeah. Wait more.
Two more years.
>> Two-year role in view over at the
Federal Reserve. Up next on the program,
Alex Alman of Barclays, Dan Ives of
Wedbush, Neil Richardson of ADP, and
Adam Heads of Janice Henderson from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
This is an insurance rate cut. It
doesn't really foreshadow what's going
to happen going forward.
>> This is all about risk management.
>> This is a Fed that locked arms. One
descent was surprising.
>> It's really clear that Paul coralled the
cats. We're all kind of hot and bothered
by this move, but the truth of the
matter is we're not in neutral territory
yet.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
For our audience worldwide, the third
hour of Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. What a rally up by 0.8% on the S&P
500, up by more than 1% on the NASDAQ
and the small caps. But it's the rally
here that we need to talk about. Two
single names in a pre-market, one
absolutely dominant. Intel up by almost
30% in early trading. Nvidia up by
three. The headline that dropped about
an hour ago, 60 minutes ago. Nvidia
agreeing to invest $5 billion in Intel.
Co-developing chips for PCs and data
centers. This is getting a lot of
people's attention, not just for what it
means for Intel, which was beaten down,
trying to be the singular national
champion when it comes to foundaries and
chip production in the US, but going
forward, how much weight the United
States is going to put behind certain
national champions. We already saw the
US government get a 10% stake in Intel,
although we don't really know exactly
what that looks like in its entirety. We
still are getting more details on that.
This just adds to that with the extra
eyeballs of Judson Wang in the Intel sea
suite.
>> Who's going to follow? You ask the
question, who's next? Who else wants to
invest in Intel? A lot of people could
benefit from developing domestic foundry
capacity. The other question we've asked
too, what does Nvidia get in return?
What's the big ask they've got of this
administration? Could that open the door
to the high-tech chips being exported to
China? which is the ultimate tension
given the fact that the foundry
development is in direct response to
trying to become selfdependent when it
comes to chip production and not
dependent on Asia, not dependent on
Taiwan given its fraugh relationship
with China. This decoupling, how far can
it go and how far does it really push
Nvidia and other tech giants to choose
given some of the questions around the
boundaries of their investments over
>> so many different stories here.
>> Intel also has a big presence in China.
What does China think about what's
happening with Intel right now?
>> Yeah. And5 billion dollars for Nvidia is
essentially spending cash that you would
find in your couch. So, let's just be
honest that this is a definite
significant move in terms of what it
signals for its arch rival. But $5
billion for Jensen Wang is basically
what he gives to his kids for allowance.
>> Yeah. It's a few coffees and breakfast.
>> Exactly. It's ridiculous.
>> It's a different world, isn't it?
Equities right now in the S&P 500 up by
3/4 to 1% on the S&P. In the bond
market, yields are lower across the
curve. twos out to 30s as we build and
reflect on what happened yesterday at
the Federal Reserve. A very divided
committee and a chairman attempting to
unite everybody.
>> Yeah. And failing to do so. I think that
a lot of people would agree that this
was a messy conclusion given the lack of
clarity in the underlying economy, the
lack of clarity as to what the committee
is going to look like come next year,
and the lack of any kind of conviction
around both the dual mandate of
employment and inflation. It does seem
like the one takeaway is this committee
is willing to live with inflation above
2% for yet another year as long as you
don't see any kind of dramatic weakening
in the labor market and that is the
ultimate priority
>> and stock markets kind of like it
apparently 87 minutes away from the open
and bow we could reclaim all-time highs.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Alexman of Barclays as stocks trade near
those record highs. Dan Ies of Wedbush
as Nvidia has taken a $5 billion stake
in Intel and Nila Richardson of ADP as
we break down the latest jobs data.
Haven't mentioned it once. Jobless
claims about 26 minutes away. We begin
this hour with stocks edging higher as
the Federal Reserve delivered its first
interest rate cut of 2025. Alexman of
Barclays joins us now for more. Alex,
good morning. It's good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Odd situation. Federal Reserve did not
meet this market. It fell well short and
here we are Thursday morning with stocks
running again. Make sense of that.
>> I think that the I think we've already
just discussed it is that the Fed
basically has a split committee right
now and trying to thread that needle is
an incredibly challenging thing to do.
um they clearly are under pressure from
from the administration and obviously
Miran now sitting on the FOMC is going
to add more of that pressure. I think
that on top of that you've also just
simply got that you've got a very
K-shaped recovery and I think people
overlook this right we've had one part
of the economy that is basically the
stock market AI technology that's
dominated is not interest rate sensitive
at all and another part manufacturing
housing small companies and obviously
several quintiles of the consumer
they've really been struggling and
they've been struggling for 2 years now
you can see that in the performance of
small caps you can see the performance
of the ISM and I think that the Fed is
now under pressure with the queue of the
labor market to actually start doing
something about that.
>> I'm pleased you brought this up because
the payrolls data is driving the Federal
Reserve, at least many members of the
committee. It's not driving the equity
market. What's driving the equity market
is the capex intentions of a handful of
companies and the kind of headlines that
we were just talking about regarding
Intel and Nvidia. Are there limits to
that story? How far can you push the bad
data for the Federal Reserve and the
good numbers for the equity market?
>> So, I think that's one part. The AI
component without a doubt, Jonathan, is
important. So we're talking about that
contributing 1% of GDP this year, maybe
60 to 70 basis points depending on where
you sort of throw out consensus for AI
capex next year. But then we've also got
the OBB, right? The one big beautiful
bill that's going to add 30, 40, maybe
even 50 basis points of GDP next year in
a more targeted way as well. And now
you've got a nent manufacturing recovery
as well as a function of that OBB, as a
function of that ancillary from the AI
capex. So you're absolutely right. It
definitely has been a big driver of the
AI capex, but it's not exclusive. We've
actually seen a broadening of the S&P
rally over the course of 2025, more so
than 2024. And that, you know, was part
of the reason why we were very
constructive on small caps and and and
that I think actually continues as a
function of these rate cuts. People
really forget that these rate cuts are
having a massive impact on a regime
shift within the equity market where
we're so used to just this AI story
dominating it and actually start
lowering interest rates, you've got a
huge cohort of not just the Russell but
also the S&P that's got variable rate
debt and it's going to start getting a
real kicker from that pretty quickly. So
this goes to the question of yesterday's
price action and we saw a rotation into
the broader equal cap uh S&P 500 the
Russell 2000. Do you think that has legs
or do you think that ultimately a rising
tide lifts all boats there is some
catchup but that this is going to be
still a very much techled rally.
>> So look I I I think we need to it's a
really good question. We got to clarify
this because um the US equity
capitalization $67 trillion give or take
the Russell is $3 trillion. So this
concept of rotation is I think a bit of
a misnomer, right? I think that if you
want to people say, "Oh, we need to
rotate out of out of AI and into small
caps." I'm like, "Well, if you do that,
you you probably will tank the stock
market." So it it's it's when we talk
about the broadening, we mean exactly
that. It's not about being necessarily
bearish on AI, although that's a bigger
discussion about what does that forward
of capex look like. How much emphasis do
we need to place on that to rely on GDP
growth next year? We can discuss that
but it's more of a case of let there's
this corner of the market that is the
market cap is smaller than Google or
Nvidia and and it has been overlooked
and understandably so but now I think
it's still it's time to shine and that's
what we've seen spectacularly not just
in things like IWM over the past couple
months but residual volatility factor
and certain factor behaviors within the
equity market have seen some of the most
incredible rallies some of which we've
really never seen since co
>> so I'm struck by the fact that the
committee of of the Fed is split when it
comes to just how much there is this
concern around the labor market and some
sort of slowdown. When we talk to the
United CEO, when we talk to Bank of
America and Brian Buahan, they are
talking about seeing a reaceleration in
the economy. They're talking about
companies that are borrowing more,
pulling triggers on deals. How much is
this increasing the international
appetite for the United States and for
equities here given the fact that the
Fed might be on the fence, but they're
cutting rates which is only fueling this
expectation for reaceleration.
>> I think that a lot of a lot of it boils
down to the administration that wants to
run the economy hot. Uh I think a lot of
it is driven by that and I think we have
to acknowledge that there has been that
external influence on things especially
going into the midterms. And by the way,
I just want to give you a stat on this.
Anytime the S uh the Fed have cut
interest rates within 1% of all-time
highs for the S&P, the S&P has been up
100% of the time 1 year later. In fact,
it's been up 88% of the time um 2 months
later. So there is definitely a
self-reinforcing mechanism here. And the
whole notion, remember the old adage of
stock market's not the economy. Well,
given that the wealth effect of US
households is so exposed to stocks now,
there is this circularity where stocks
being at all-time high can fuel consumer
sentiment can propel the economy in a
very much sort of circular fashion. So,
it's no surprise that you know that all
of a sudden consumer spending is picking
up again as the S&Ps are alltime highs
and they're cutting interest rates. The
question is what is the price we're
going to pay for that down the line?
>> Can I just ask you something about the
future? You run tactical strategies.
When does someone like you start to
consider the future of the Federal
Reserve and the postpow world and the
fact that that dot at the very bottom of
the dot plot which most people correctly
assume is Governor Myron's that
ultimately that could be the Fed chairs
in June next year. I think we're
thinking about it now and I think that's
contributed a lot of what we've seen
within this internal rotation that's
been going on since June and that will
most likely continue because there is
still going to be a line of sight on the
fact that the current Fed chair will not
be in his seat from May next year.
>> You said for what the price is that we
pay down the road. Are you saying this
is creating a bubble? I think there's a
real chance that we do create a bubble
and I think that everyone who invests in
equities has to acknowledge that uh
we're not ironically we're actually
trading at a lower valuation today visav
where real rates are versus this time
last year. So I think that there's
actually a case to be made right now
that there was more more you know
exuberance in the market say in parts of
2021 and even parts of 2024 in the wake
of the election than there is now.
That's not to say that we can't fuel and
create a bubble. And I think what people
often make the mistake of is assuming if
there is a bubble and I'm not saying
that categorically there is one but they
can go on that's it that it's done but
it typically goes on for a lot longer
than people tend to think.
>> Julian Emanuel was talking about that
career risk.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you feel some of that?
>> You can be honest with us. You work on
Wall Street. Do people you speak to feel
that? Do a lot of people feel that
career risk of not being long enough in
a market like this one? Is that more
important to them than worrying about
downside risk? I think for the most part
just from personal experience having run
money and also sitting on the sell side
I would say that generally in up markets
people are more relaxed. So yes of
course if you're running a benchmark
fund long only I think there's always
going to be pressure to obviously
perform that benchmark and you would
have seen the charts and the percentage
of longies that underperform in any
given year. From a from an absolute
return strategy perspective as long as
you're making money for your for your
LPS generally you're you're you're in
good shape. um that that is your uh that
is your job at the end of the day and to
manage draw down risks. But within a
bubble of course yes if you know you
start seeing explosive continued 20 30%
rallies in in in the market and you're
dramatic underperforming or not making
money at all then inevitably you're
going to feel some pressure.
>> You don't get paid for being bearish in
a market like that one. I've heard so
many stories about the late 90s. We
heard a few already this morning.
>> Yeah. This is the reason why bubbles can
continue for a very long time even if
everybody thinks they feel a little
frothy. Although what Alex just said
there was really interesting that based
on where rates are currently valuations
are actually lower today than where they
were last year. So I think it's
important to remember maybe we're you
know in the first inning of a nine
inning bubble. I hate using baseball
analogies but here we are. There you go.
>> Anyway, Alex, thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> It's good to see you.
>> Alex Alman there of Barclays. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere.
Let's get to your Bloombo brief. Here's
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Shares of Intel
surging in the premarket following an
announcement Nvidia is investing $5
billion in its rival. The company said
they will co-develop chips for PCs and
data centers. Nvidia will buy Intel
common stock at $2328 per share. That's
a 6 and a half% discount to Wednesday's
closing price.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that the European Union is planning to
present a new package of proposed
sanctions against Russia as soon as
tomorrow. The proposed penalties follow
a phone call between the EU's Ursula
Vander Lion and US President Donald
Trump. Vander Lion said the sanctions
would target crypto banks and energy.
And shares of Nobo Nordisk are gaining
in pre-market trading after beating Eli
Liy in a realworld study. The study
followed nearly 60,000 people with
diabetes and heart disease and found
Medicare patients who took NOBO's OMIC
were 23% less likely to have a heart
attack, stroke or die than people on
Lily's Trulicity. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonnie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next, the morning calls plus
Dan Ives of Wetbush as Nvidia is taking
a major stake in Intel. The big news of
the last hour or so. That's next. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The president has respected the UK
tradition of the last 24 hours. meeting
the king and reflected on an old
partnership between the UK and the US.
He's now alongside the British Prime
Minister Karma talking about a new
partnership potentially between Intel
and Nvidia. In Buckinghamshire, the
United Kingdom, the president and the
prime minister hosting business leaders
in the UK today. And in that room is the
Intel CEO Jensen Wang after Nvidia
agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel.
>> Yeah, you've got Jensen Wang of Nvidia
there. You have, of course, Tim Cook as
well. You also have uh Mark Zuckerberg
and you have the open AI chair and
founder Sam Alman. And a real question
here about what the commitment will be,
how the UK will carry this out and how
much these tech leaders are a chip in
international negotiations for the
United States in an increasing way.
>> We've got Mandep Singh of Blimp
Intelligence alongside us. Mandep, good
morning.
>> It's good to see you. I have no doubt
the president's happy uh with this move,
not on Nvidia, but on Intel higher by
almost 30% in the pre-market. Your first
reaction to that deal?
>> Well, I mean, look, from an in Nvidia
perspective, I don't see a big strategic
rationale given Intel has been such a
big competitor over the years except for
the fact that Nvidia has a very healthy
balance sheet and it's been making
investments, you know, in Corev and some
other cloud providers. So $5 billion is
not a big amount for them given their
balance sheet and co-developing chips.
To my mind, Intel's uh kind of ecosystem
revolves around x86 and they dominate in
the PC world. So that's where Nvidia can
use their distribution. But the fact
that they are not using uh them in
foundry, I mean that just goes to show
that they don't want to touch that TSMC
ecosystem where they dominate. And so
it's more of you have to convince the
government that you're doing something
about it. I mean clearly government has
a 10% stake in Intel now. And uh you
know this was probably the best way to
go about it.
>> What do you think Nvidia might get in
return? Have you given that some
thought?
>> Well the PC refresh cycle we have been
waiting for that for a while.
>> I'm thinking more of what the president
might be able to give them access to
China selling their high-end chips. I
mean that's uh definitely on the cards
and look be getting to a monopoly
position is never a good thing for a
company. That's what we have learned
from Google because uh you know once you
get to a monopoly position it attracts
so much attention. So to my mind, Nvidia
wants to keep competitors who are
distant, you know, third or second and
and so from that perspective, it's good
that Intel will be a competitor, but at
the same time, Nvidia still maintains
the lead and they don't get classified
as a monopoly.
>> Dan out of Wedbush is standing by, wants
to jump on. He calls the deal a huge
gamecher for Intel. Dan, good morning
and welcome to the program. Why do you
believe this is such a huge game
changer?
>> Pop the champagne. I mean for Intel now
you have Nvidia godfather of AI doubling
down and this follows obviously US
government investment. I mean what this
essentially does it brings Intel into
the AI game. You think from a stock
perspective that that changes the
multiple and you know clearly this is
also going to be viewed very positively
in DC. I think that's something that
could definitely help Jensen and others
when it comes to China. Dan, I do wonder
though about Mandep's point. This idea
that this isn't Nvidia going allin and
developing their chips for the big
semiconductors, the big uh hyperscalers
at the in uh at the Intel foundry. This
is simply a $5 billion side project
about PCs. How much is this essentially
just an olive branch to the president
and not an actual move of Nvidia to try
to fortify Intel's plans to become the
foundry?
>> Yeah. Mandep brings up great points as
always, but look, this is also it's a
doubling down on investment in the US. I
mean that that's also what it is. Now
clearly that obviously I'll branch the
Trump administration and others but what
they're also doing is when it comes to
PC upgrade cycle x86 I mean this does
give them another potential growth lever
and look Nvidia right now it's Nvidia's
world everyone else is paying rent and
they know that they're in a massive
position of strength but for Intel I
mean think about you went you know you
went from call it a month ago you some
worries about you know in terms of the
CEO potentially out now you at the
investment from government and you have
Intel you know now again Nvidia I mean
that is a goldilock scenario for Intel.
>> This is coming at a time when China is
trying to emphasize domestic production
of their own uh technology and really
trying to create national champions
there that can rival Nvidia and other US
tech giants. I just wonder whether it is
possible to continue for the likes of
Nvidia trying to push into China trying
to sell more advanced chips into that
country while at the same time uh you
know playing with this idea of US
independence from China. Look, it's a
tightwire act, but the reality is that
there's one chip in the world fueling
the AI revolution, and that's that's led
by Godfather of AI, Gens, and Nvidia.
And that's why in China, look, they
could tell Chinese big tech and Beijing,
don't buy Nvidia chip. That that's like
telling a kid, okay, don't eat the candy
that's on the table. So, that's the
reality because they're years ahead of
when you look at Huawei and others. But
at the same time, I mean, Trump
administration recognizes they have to
strengthen AI infrastructure, AI chip
making. And you look at Intel, I mean,
they've gone obviously from a huge
wagger. I mean, Intel, you know, all the
red tape, all the sort of black eye
moments, you finally have some positives
at at Intel.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. The president of the United
States, Donald Trump, alongside the
British Prime Minister, Sakir Stama,
hosting a business meeting. The
president just opening up his remarks.
Let's take a listen.
>> We have to deal with you and you are the
best. You're the best in the world and
you're here and it's an honor to have
all of these great leaders. Really an
honor. But I'm sincerely grateful to
>> Prime Minister Starmer and Lady Starmer
for welcoming us to this very special
home, this beautiful place.
And uh I was here a number of years ago,
but somehow today it looks even better,
even more beautiful and even more
historic. Melania and I are forever
thankful to his majesty King Charles III
and her majesty Queen Camila had a
fantastic evening last night. But the
exquisite honor of a second official
state visit, the first ever, it's the
first time it's ever been done was, you
know, really was an honor. such great
history and to think it's a first. It's
always nice to have a first, but the
ties between our countries are priceless
and it's really an inheritance. It's
beautiful inheritance. Today, we're
making those ties closer than ever
before. We've done some things that
financially are great for both countries
and we work together and it keeps us
together and I think it's an unbreakable
bond we have regardless of what we're
doing today. I think it's unbreakable.
But this is very big and I want to thank
all of the incredibly talented business
leaders, the best in the world, biggest
in the world here this afternoon for
investing in the Anglo-American Alliance
and you personify an important part of
the unique national bond and really a
world bond. What you've done is
incredible. Our two countries do a great
deal of business together. $340 billion
last year was the number. In May, the
United Kingdom became the first country
to make a trade deal with the United
States during my second term. And we
sort of wanted to make it the first
because the the bond is so strong and
the relationship so long. That agreement
will create billions of dollars in
opportunities for American farmers to
sell their products into the UK, reduce
barriers to trade and give the US
manufacturers better access to the UK's
worldclass aerospace supply chain which
is really really is world class. A lot
of people don't understand it the
importance of that particular uh asset
that you have. It's a beautiful it's a
beautiful job you've done. There's no
more natural partnership in the world.
Together, we're building up the
industrial capacity of both of our
countries, which is crucial to our
defense, and we work so well together in
defense. I met so many of the leaders of
your defending group, and uh many of
them I've known by name, but now I know
them pretty well. We had some very good
meetings today and yesterday.
So, we're taking the next logical step
with a historic agreement on science and
technology partnerships. And this will
create new government, academic, and
private sector cooperation in areas such
as AI, which is taking over the world.
That's I mean, I'm looking at you guys.
You're taking over the world, Jensen. I
don't know what you're doing here. I I
hope you're right.
>> All I can say is we both hope you're
right. But uh it's pretty amazing
quantum computing fusion
6G and civil nuclear energy and align
our nations through the approach of
center deregulation and innovation. And
we're going to have a lot of
deregulation and a tremendous amount of
innovation. It's just happening. But
this new accord is already helping spur
a massive wave of private sector deals
worth over $350 billion alone. headlined
by a 136 billion from Blackstone. That's
very nice, Steve. Thank you. That's why
you have that location. I think
it's considered the best seat all the
year. Yours is pretty good, too, Jensen.
That's good. That's great, Steve. It's
you know what you're doing better than
anybody. American company X Energy and
British company Cent Centric has been
announcing and really for a long while
they've been talking about this deal.
The deployment of modular nuclear
reactors across the UK. All across the
UK it been it's been in the wind for
couple of years and now we're getting it
done. generating more than $50 billion
in economic value, creating up to 2,500
jobs, empowering 1.5 million homes.
That's a lot of homes. Seven decades
after British genius Allan Turing
pioneered the field, this agreement will
also help America and our British allies
dominate the future of artificial
intelligence. You need the energy. You
have to have the energy. That's one
thing I learned very quickly. They need
a lot of electricity. in the United
States, you need double what we have
right now just to maintain that fight.
We're right now and I want to say
leading
China and the world by a lot in AI a lot
and we're creating tremendous amounts of
energy and letting you create your own
electricity in many many cases and we're
giving you very rapid approvals. We're
getting them approvals like they've
never seen before. They used to wait 15
and 20 years to be rejected.
Now they wait two weeks or three weeks
to be accepted. That's a pretty big
That's a pretty big difference. And at
the same time, we always have the
environment in mind, but we we move them
along. But we're committed to ensuring
that you have secure and reliable
sources of American AI and quantum
technology. We intend to always be the
UK's strongest, closest, and most
trusted business partner. Very important
to us. The relationship is very
important. One year ago, our country was
in serious trouble. Uh the king of Saudi
Arabia, great gentleman, great
gentleman, you all know him. He said,
"Sir, your country was dead one year
ago, and now you have the hottest
country anywhere in the world." And it's
true that we'll have more than 17
trillion dollars invested in our country
this year. 17 trillion,
which is many, many times what we had
last year. And we're only in our just
about almost ninth month. Getting just
it's moving along quickly. It's amazing.
I was saying we're in our third month,
our fourth month, our fifth month, but
we're at uh it's going to be over 17
trillion dollars. No, no country has
ever had anything like that even close.
GDP last quarter was 3.3%.
Despite all of the things we're doing,
uh one of the things we're doing, which
I'm very proud of, is the border. We now
have a totally closed border, totally
secure for 3 months. Zero people came
into our country, bad people. And they
come in, but they have to come in
legally. We have a great process going.
And inflation is virtually uh
non-existent. As you know, we we're
taking in uh trillions of dollars from
tariffs and they've been so incredible
for our country. So incredible. We're
keeping our companies happy. We're
keeping them solid and sane and uh
they're very very thrilled at what's
happened. They can't even actually they
can't even believe it. And we've never
seen investment like this. Without the
tariffs, we would have just a fraction
of that. And we're really the only one
that can do tariffs. Nobody else is.
>> Perfect timing from the president there
as he started to reflect on the state of
the US economy as something we have to
do in just a couple of seconds time.
We're about 20 seconds away from jobless
claims. So, I want to bring it from the
UK back here to the United States to
focus on that data as it crosses. Going
into it, equity futures set up as
follows. We're positive by about 0.8% on
the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, higher by
1.2. On the Russell, small caps
outperforming by 1.3. In the bond
market, yields are a little bit lower
across the curve. Yields down by two
basis points at the front end with the
latest economic data. Let's cross over
to Mike McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we do get a
snap back in jobless claims after the
big rise last week. We fall back to
231,000.
That's below the estimate. Last week was
revised up by a thousand, so it was 264.
But remember, this was all in theory
because of fraud in Texas. Texas
officials say there were a whole lot of
illegal filings the week before, and
that looks like it is the case. The
ongoing claims number is 1,920,000.
that falls from 1,927.
So the jobless claims numbers improve,
take a little bit of that edge off in
terms of what's happening with the
economy. Of course, the Fed sticking
with that. Now, Philadelphia Fed is out
as well. It jumps to 23.2 from.3
in terms of the overall number and the
prices paid index drops to 46.8
versus 66.8.
So, a significant improvement on the
inflation side for Philadelphia Fed.
Don't have the explanation for that yet,
but we'll look into it.
>> That's the pick up in activity that so
many equity market bulls are looking
for. Mike, stay close. I want to come
back to you on the Federal Reserve in
just a moment. I want to break down
these numbers with Lisa. So, jobless
claims come in with a nice downside
surprise 231. As Mike pointed out in the
previous week, had this odd quirk coming
out of Texas. A lot of people thought
that maybe they were the wrong kind of
filings for unemployment benefits.
claims have come back down to 231.
Fraudulent filings were the conversation
that we were having last week. So, the
good news is that we've returned back to
the 230s on jobless claims. That's taken
some heat out of the bond market rally.
Yields come back up just a little bit
across the curve. Yields were down two
basis points at the front end. Now, just
about unchanged with that kind of move,
push it through foreign exchange.
Starting to see the comeback of the US
dollar. Just a little bit of dollar
strength against the euro. Euro dollar
shaping up as follows on my screen on
the Bloomberg 11806. are slightly
negative now on the session. So that's
some good news, Bremo, that's the right
kind of downside surprise on jobless
claims
>> and it coheres with what we're hearing
from a lot of people which is and I'm
talking about business leaders who say
that the labor market isn't falling off
a cliff and if anything there is this
feeling of reaceleration in the
underlying economy and certainly we've
seen that in spending. I just wonder
based on the muted reaction in bond
markets how the 2-year isn't ripping
higher. It is a little bit higher. How
much this really signifies that the Fed
has put a cap on how high those
short-term yields could go regardless of
how good that economic data could be.
>> Mike, I want to build on the data and
get your thoughts on the Federal
Reserve. You spent time in the news
conference, listened to Chairman Pound
intently, had your own remarks to make
and your own interaction with him. What
is anchoring their view of the labor
market right now? Is it payrolls? Is it
the unemployment rate? Is it claims?
What is it?
>> It is payrolls. At this point, they're
looking at the drop in the number of
people getting hired and starting to
worry that means that companies are
going to start cutting back on people if
their margins are compressed because of
tariffs. But we haven't seen a sign of
that yet. We're still seeing business
leaders say, "We're sitting on our
hands. We're waiting to see what's going
to happen." But the Fed sees more danger
in that than they do in inflation, which
they're describing as a one-off. But of
course Gary Con yesterday from IBM
saying that uh this could stretch out
companies could stretch out the process
of raising prices. So it is sort of
without a lot of conviction that the Fed
is making the choice to focus on
employment at this part and that could
change at any time when we get new
inflation numbers.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Michael,
great work yesterday. Thank you sir.
Appreciate it. Neil Richardson of ADP
joins us in the studio. Neil, good
morning. It's good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> This is a tough one to read. you help us
out. Where is this labor market right
now? What's happening?
>> Labor market is strong. Actually, it's
solid. And I think there is a a a
comment that has to be made. It is
weakening, but the labor market is not
weak. And if you look at the stock, and
that's what a lot of your audience is
used to doing, looking at the stock and
the flows. If you look at the stock,
what you'll see is that the consumer is
really smoothing out all the rough edges
in the economy. And it's true for the
labor market as well. There's very
little turnover in this labor market. I
was really shocked by that upward
surprise in jobless claims last week.
And now I know that that was just a
mirage. And we're back to historical
lows. There's very little flow out and
there's very little flow in. But what
that means for the consumer is that
they're not defying gravity. When you
see that pop in retail sales, they are
well anchored by a functioning labor
market where they are employed and
working and those incomes are fueling
spending. And as long as that continues
to happen, we can live with the
uncertainty of fewer flows and hirings
in and out of the labor market if the
stock is healthy.
>> Well, and this raises the point that
maybe this is the new normal. Uh the
sort of low hire, lowf fire type of
churn. And I just wonder if that's true,
if that's the case or if you do see some
sort of reaceleration in hiring,
especially if there is some sort of
commensurate reaceleration in the
economy heading into the end of the
year.
>> Yeah. So that goes back to the weakening
and I do think the labor market is
weakening, but not for the reasons that
were explained yesterday. Not simply
because of the hiring rate, but really
the concentration of hiring. And Lisa,
you and I have talked about this a lot.
If you look at the BLS data, if you look
at the ADP data, what you'll see is a
heavily concentrated hiring market in
key consumer sectors. Whether it's
healthcare for the BLS or leisure and
hospitality and ADP, it's the consumer
who's driving hiring. And the consumer's
wins are really forming and shaping
today's labor market. I think that's a
concern. You want broad-based hiring.
You don't want it concentrated. That's
not good for the future. So there are
reasons to be concerned about this labor
market, but the ones in terms of just
the number of jobs that are added every
single month, I think that's not the
biggest problem with the labor market
right now.
>> Going forward, we've been talking about
the conflict between the real economy
and this idea that there is something
kind of quirky or not totally healthy
about the labor market and the idea that
you're seeing this boom in a select
number of stocks, but it does seem to be
broadening. Do you think that that also
is the new normal that companies can
keep doing really well but not increase
their headcount considerably or invest
in talent or do you think that this is
something that has to reconcile
>> in stock markets and companies the truth
is if you're not growing you're not
you're not going to be around for long
and I think that when we look at the
labor market what I see is a tipping
point I see a labor market that is very
dependent on the consumer and a consumer
that is very dependent on the labor
market and I think this is an uneasy
truce. It's a delicate relationship
because anything could upend it. And
that is the issue for companies as well.
If their demand is coming from a
resilient consumer only and that
consumer is dependent and most of us are
on the labor market, then you can see
how these fractures could lead to
something bigger for consu uh companies
right now. So, they're very dependent on
that demand outlook and it's uncertain
um and there's a lot of risk around it.
So yesterday felt really messy
>> listening to what you've got to say
about things. Could these decisions get
messier given how difficult it is to
read things at the moment?
>> You know, um Vice Chair Jeff gave a
speech about two years ago on the
difference between uncertainty and risk.
And that term risk management really
stood out to me because risk is
something where you don't know the
outcome, but you know the distribution.
and therefore you can act to in a way if
you're the Fed to you know try to tilt
towards an outcome that is preferred
uncertainty you don't know the outcome
and you don't know the distribution and
I think we're there more now uh than we
were even two years ago we have an
uncertain distribution so it calls into
question whether uh a short-term rate
move is really going to affect these
long-term structural issues tied to
demographics immigration and higher uh
inflation than when than we're used With
that in mind, as they get closer and
closer to neutral, how do they confront
the situation you've just described?
>> Historically, they've done so with data
and really having a strong read of not
only where the economy is now, but where
it's going. And that is going to be
critical because they have to work in
two time dimensions, right? Now, and the
future and right now things look pretty
good. Um, the stock, like I said, for
the labor market is pretty good. the
unemployment rate is below what we've
seen historically. Um but in the future
if these structural changes become uh
live realtime constraints to the economy
then the Fed has to act and act quickly
and that is the uncertainty that we're
all going to be grappling with.
>> Just a a random question for me. How
long before college graduates actually
get jobs?
>> Well, my son graduates in two years, so
I'm hoping for that.
>> Seriously, so when's that going to come
back? I I I think for early career,
we're also seeing a complex
relationship, right? Because we're
seeing um they're entering a jobs market
where AI is becoming more and more
present in their skill set. And when you
think about where AI shows up for these
early care or for careers in general,
it's showing up according to research
done by Stanford using ADP data in early
career in AI exposed fields. And that's
not just software developers, that's
marketing, that's finance, that's
anything that you use a spreadsheet or a
you know some kind of document to do. So
I do think that there is a transition
point. The good news is in this very
stable labor market, companies are
leaning into employee engagement,
employee training, employee upskilling
in a way that they weren't doing before
the pandemic. So there's hope uh that if
the economy stays strong that this early
career population, which is our future,
uh will be trained into those durable
jobs.
>> I share that hope, Nita. I hope you're
right. Nita Richardson,
>> not just for you.
>> I've got a little longer
>> for everybody. Brao, it's a huge issue.
And if everyone's right, the equity
bulls in this market that come on this
program talking about the reaceleration
into next year, I hope that brings the
labor market with it. And that's not the
kind of jobless acceleration that you've
been talking about.
>> Yeah. And how much companies to Neil's
point invest in training. And we were
talking to Brian Moahan yesterday. And
the uh sort of subtext to some of the
conversation is that the big banks are
training and some of the others are
stealing because they don't want to
train and this does take money and it is
inefficient. So how do companies have
the conviction to do that if they kind
of like chat GPT and think you know they
can get their own coffee?
>> Some good news at least this morning in
the last 10 minutes or so. Jobless
claims down to about 231. 231 against an
estimate of 240. The previous number a
revised 264. You want some coffee, don't
you?
>> I have. Yeah. Okay. I have like the
benefit of a cup.
>> I'll get my own later.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your Bloomfo
brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, Tom. Thank you. Recapping that data
then that we brought you just a few
minutes ago. Initial jobless claims
dropping by the most in nearly four
years last week. Claims fell by 33,000
to 231,000. The median forecast in
Bloomberg survey of economists called
for 240,000 applications.
China's Huawei unveiled a plan to
challenge Nvidia's dominance in the AI
chip market. The company unveiled its
new super pod cluster designs that can
link more than 15,000 of its ascend AI
chips together to boost computing power.
Huawei plans to roll out the new models
in 2027 and 2028.
Shares of Alphabet rising in the
pre-market. The Financial Times
reporting China is dropping its
antitrust investigation into the
dominance of Google's Android. The
announcement comes ahead of Friday's
scheduled call between President Donald
Trump and China's Xiinping. And that's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Up next on the
program, Adam heads of Janice Herson as
stocks trade near alltime highs. Plus,
Yhira with your morning movers as Intel
shares surge following a deal
announcement with Nvidia. That stock is
up by 30%.
[Music]
This is a committee that has to think
about the long run even as they make
today's decisions. Not surprising I
think that you see this kind of
dispersion giving the changes going on
in the economy. When you see dispersion
like this, it tells you that we are we
are looking pretty short term. This idea
of meeting to meeting sounds right to
me. There was a lot of dispersion in the
forecast from this Federal Reserve just
yesterday. That was the former Kansas
City Fed President Esther George. She's
seen it all. She's been on the
dissenting side of things and she's seen
a lot of those forecasts that looked a
little like what we saw yesterday.
>> You know, she said something
interesting. If you disscent and the
rest of the committee votes against you,
it doesn't mean that your view didn't
count. People hear it and I wonder how
much they heard Steven Myron's vote even
if it was very different from their own.
>> Pushing for 50. And let's be clear, we
did think other people might join him
and they didn't. Governor Waller,
Governor Bowman, didn't happen, but
there was a credible case for some
people at least to make that case.
>> Yeah, especially before retail sales and
once retail sales came in, maybe not. I
will say I don't know how much
consolidation there is around a view of
125 basis points of rate cuts by the end
of this year but nonetheless uh that is
the dot that we saw.
>> Yeah, I was talking more about the
descent for 50 than I was the the but
maybe that's the reason why there wasn't
as much
>> I said early this morning stranger
things have happened the Fed's been very
offsite at turning points and if you
look at the forecast my favorite is the
SCP from the end of 21. Not that I have
a favorite SCP but that's really sad. If
you go to the end of 21 and look at
their forecast for the end of 22,
they're hundreds and hundreds of basis
points off where they ended up. They
were looking for 0.9%. The point here,
and I think it is very well taken. It is
nice to have contrarian views and
sometimes it's really important to
consider alternative scenarios,
especially in the time of this much
uncertainty.
>> Equities are higher this morning by
0.7%. What uncertainty? Alltime highs
potentially at the opening about 43
minutes away with your morning movers.
Let's cross over to Hierra for more. Hey
you Hyra.
>> Hi John. Now, we are seeing Intel shares
absolutely soaring here in the
pre-market, up 30% because, as President
Trump just said moments ago, it feels
like Jensen Wong is taking over the
world. Nvidia is investing 5 billion
dollars into Intel. And it the rivals
will now team up to co-develop chips for
PCs and for data centers. And looking at
the big picture, it comes after the US
government took a 10% stake in Intel.
All while China continues to crack down
on Nvidia and prop up its own domestic
chip industry. So, this just all feels
like a bigger chess game being played.
And sticking with tech and China, we are
seeing shares of Alphabet up more than
1% on a report that Beijing is scrapping
its antirust probe into Android. And the
timing is not does not feel like an
accident. And it comes just a day before
Presidents Trump and Xiinping are set to
call. So this is being viewed as sort of
an olive branch ahead of that highly
consequential call. And we end on the
consumer with Darden restaurants down
8%. This is the company behind Olive
Garden and Longhorn Steakhouse. Shares
are falling after adjusted earnings per
share came in below estimates in the
latest quarter. And that is because the
company which caters caters to middle
inome consumers said that it was going
to try to limit price hikes to keep
diners coming through the door. So that
is hitting profits and it's comparable
sales outlook did not look good either.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
conflicting signals coming from
corporate America.
>> Yeah, maybe just bad bread sticks.
That's what I thought.
>> Yeah, they've got their own problems.
Totally agree with you. I know you're
kind of joking, but
>> you're not far off. I just wonder how
much this is consumers being choosier,
choiceful, whatever word you want to
say, picky and choosing the ones they
like and prioritizing that. And this is
really a competitive thing more than it
is an economic thing.
>> Let's cut you down to the opening bell.
Let's move on from there. Stocks
hovering near all-time highs. Equities
up by 0.7% on the S&P 500. Adam Head of
Janice Henderson writing the following.
With so many cuts already priced in, if
there is a proper growth scare, there is
risk that additional cuts won't mitigate
the downside. Adam joins us now for
more. Adam, welcome to the program.
>> Good morning.
>> That's a really thoughtful statement. I
want to give you some time just to build
on that a little bit. Are you suggesting
that the rate cuts that are already
priced that haven't yet been delivered
are already starting to influence the
economy?
>> There are high expectations right now
for more rate cuts and yesterday helped
to affirm that. So the Fed's doing a
really good job right now of balancing a
wide range of good risks and bad risks
and we think investors should do the
same and portfolio should be balanced
right now which means more of like a
6040 starting point and a 60/40 should
stay around 60/40 even though that feels
a little bit neutral at the top level.
It's not under the hood if we're talking
about a base case of rate cuts with a
resilient economy. It's great for
growth. It's great for cyclicals small
and mid. It's great for REITs. It's
great for international and that
broadening trade should have some room
to run. Why does the bond piece perform
in the way you think it should in an
environment like this one when the
Federal Reserve is really losing some
credibility about its pursuit of 2% on
the inflation side? And it's also
telling us basically they're willing to
underpin the labor market and they're
willing to sacrifice things on inflation
>> within that 6040 that bond piece right
now rates are rallying and we think
investors should extend duration if they
haven't already. And if those lower
yields across the curve are forcing more
of a search for yield in some multiasset
income portfolios, that's where you can
look outside the core into the more of
the credit non-investment grade
segments. Investors are seeing corporate
spreads at all-time tights, nearly that,
at least the tightest since the late
90s. This is where you can look outside
traditional corporates into securitized.
Janice Henderson is a world-class
securitized team. We're the second
largest active ETF provider with a lot
of great securitized offerings there.
and we're seeing that we go from more of
a diversifier to more of a strategic
long-term piece of portfolios within the
fixed income.
>> I guess I don't understand why the rate
cutting cycle this time around would
give such a boom to to to bonds given
the ongoing strength in the economy and
to John's point the inflationary
pressures where inflation still hasn't
gotten down to 2% uh for more than four
years. I just wonder given the fact that
equity valuations yes they are elevated
but you're looking at the moonshot in AI
you're looking at profitability other
than Darden that has been going up and
you look at the idea that there is a lot
of cash that is I don't want to say on
the sidelines because I don't like that
expression but in money market funds why
aren't stocks the much better choice
right now than bonds
>> well you're seeing those balanced risks
play out and this goes back to why you'd
want to keep more of that 60/40 baseline
intact so part of the concerns here part
of the bearish case is price levels are
so high that goes for valuations top
deskile valuations in the S&P you've got
credit spreads near all-time tights but
those high price levels also feed into
that bullish case about loose financial
conditions especially once you factor in
lower rates in the 10-year and lower
ball so those bearish concerns about
price levels also feed in perpetuate
that bullish case which is why you don't
want to be underweight equities right
now
>> how hard is it to convince uh customers
clients of yours that bonds still
deserve the same place in the portfolio
This has been a a long-term discussion.
We get those questions every day and
this goes back to a decade ago living
through that ultra low rate environment.
That's not where we are right now. When
you're looking at bond portfolios,
you're looking at flexible diversified
bond portfolios, you're seeing yields
still in the mid- single digits. And so
that is a great cushion. And in that bad
case scenario of rates going higher,
there is still a small chance it could
be from deficit fiscal concerns with
global yield ceilings raising. But right
now, if we see yields go from four and
you blink and yields hit 450 on the
10-year, right now, if you look at Fed
projections, you look at the GDP now
cast with US GDP around 3.4%. Right now,
if you're seeing yields rise, that
actually could be good for risk assets
and that it might hurt your bond
portfolio, but that's great for risk
assets because the economy is
recovering. So, if you have the opposite
effect and rates rally from here, that
still makes bonds a great diversifier
for a portfolio and you're clipping
mid-s singledigit yields.
>> Adam, what are you actually expecting
for next year? Are you expecting a
reaceleration in growth?
>> Is that the base case?
>> The base case here is you have to expect
if you're looking at the Fed
projections, you're looking at broader
consensus, you're having rate cuts into
this soft landing kind of resilient
growth scenario. There's a wide range of
risks around it. But it goes back to
that broadening trade. We're seeing a
lot of opportunities and the smidcaps
and the cyclicals and international and
valuations have crept up and you've seen
that broadening trade work so far this
year. But there's a lot of room to
reate. There's a lot of room for
earnings expectations to go up from
where they are
>> which is why we've seen this big out
performance in smalls at least over the
past what is it Bremo 6 weeks six seven
weeks
>> yeah what did Alex Alman say uh the
marketillion $3 trillion he said you
know that's that's smaller than a lot of
the uh the mega the mega tech uh
companies in the United States so hard
to really call this a rotation but it
does speak to the idea that there are
companies that have been left behind by
these all-time highs that we keep
talking about every day
>> I think he's more comfortable with the
word broad link it's a broad link not a
full rotation.
>> I think the equal weight is the story
that people keep turning to, right? The
other 493 and at what point do they
outperform given the moonshot of the
magnificent seven. I just wonder again
how consistent it is that bonds act as
that diversifier. And I think it's
really interesting to hear Adam's point
which is it's controversial and yet the
6040 coming back as a pitch and and just
sort of acting as that balance. We
talked about this. The good news of the
last two weeks through September is
yields on 30s aren't at 5%. They're at
470. 10 aren't at 450. They're closer to
four. That's quite a change coming into
September. That's not the conversation
people were having. In fact, on the
fixed income side, there was a real
concern. We see a repeat of last year.
Federal Reserve would lean into easing
and you'd see a sell-off at the long
end. That's not developed this time.
>> No. And there doesn't seem to be a real
significant rise in inflation
expectations when you look at break even
rates either. So, it seems like people
still have faith that the Fed will
ultimately reign in inflation should it
get too hot, even if it is running above
2%.
>> Adam enjoyed this. It's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Appreciate it
and for tolerating us. Adam Heads of
Janice Henderson. We appreciate that,
too. Coming up tomorrow, Marissa Adams
of HSBC, the former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bullard, Congressman Jason
Smith, Nadia Levelvel of UBS. What a
week so far. One more trading day still
to go into the weekend with equity
futures on the S&P 500 up by 0.6%
alltime highs just around the corner.
We're almost there. Brammo,
>> you just said going into the weekend.
>> Yeah, like one more day after this. One
more trading day after this.
>> Why are you teasing me? We're not there
yet.
>> I know. Well, maybe
>> when we wake up Friday record highs and
like you know Yeah. Yeah. We're
practicing right now.
>> I'm wishing it forward.
>> Thank you.